Source :http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2018/07/art-iranian-deal-trump-talk-tehran-180716082953755.html
Content :In Bonn, capital of then-West Germany, an Iranian diplomat was on a mission to deliver a message to the Americans from Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. The secret memo delivered by Sadegh Tabatabai would serve as the first draft of the 1981 Algiers Accord, between Iran and the US, which would pave the way for the release of the American hostages after 444 days in captivity. With the right conditions, based on "mutual respect", Tehran and Washington, DC can engage in new talks, despite President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the nuclear deal and reimpose sanctions on Iran . Sadeghi said the Iranian leadership has decades of experience talking with the Americans, including top secret discussions with a Republican administration in the run-up to the war in Afghanistan, and later the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. The same government publication even highlighted in its banner headline Trump's suggestion for a new deal, and National Security Adviser John Bolton's call for Iran to "take up" the president's offer. Although critical of Trump's "unpredictability", Mohammad Eslami, editor of the Khorasan Diplomatic Magazine in Tehran, said for Iran diplomacy always remains an option to resolve conflicts. At this point in the diplomatic brinksmanship, Trump could only break the impasse if he returns to the framework of the Iran nuclear deal, also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ( JCPOA ), Eslami stressed. If Trump is serious about his offer to negotiate with Iran, his administration has to take "preparatory measures" to pave the way for a new round of talks, Seyed Hossein Mousavian, former Iranian ambassador to Germany, told Al Jazeera. For its part, the US has demanded that Iran curb its ballistic missile programme and scale back its military presence in neighbouring Middle Eastern countries, among other issues. But Kaveh Ehsani, a professor of international studies at DePaul University in Chicago, said the US must respect Iran's standing in the Middle East before it can pursue meaningful negotiations. 