Source :http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/setting-rohingya-camp-elects-women-leaders-180812140132177.html
Content :"It was my first experience talking to a large crowd," said the 26-year-old, recalling the moment after being declared the winner of an unusual election to pick the leader of a camp hosting Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh. The goal was to allow the camp's 16,000-strong Rohingya population, most of whom arrived here almost a year ago after fleeing a fierce crackdown by neighbouring Myanmar 's army, to make decisions for themselves, says Muhammad Saiful Islam, the government-appointed camp-in-charge (CIC) official of Nayapara. Their main duties include trying to resolve the disagreements between the community members and find solutions to the problems, as well as liaise with NGOs and the CIC to implement certain decisions. SM Liaquat Ali, the project field coordinator of all of the NGOs working in the camp, said that the election campaign highlighted "transparency, accountability, governance and communication" from the community. According to Ali, the Rohingya community leaders - known as mazis - who were selected by the Bangladeshi army at the start of the crisis to keep order at food distribution points made several attempts to disrupt the election process. "When they were informed that there would be new community leaders, the mazis became engaged in some malpractice," Ali said, citing instances of blackmailing and corruption , including purposely distributing food aid unequally. "The women succeeded in engaging more people from the community to volunteer with NGOs," she said, adding that even though the "solutions remain evasive", the new system "has made it easier for me as a woman to raise [the] issues we face." For Romeda, who fled Myanmar's Rakhine state with her sister in October 2016, before the rest of the family joined them at the height of the Rohingya crisis in August 2017, that is down to being actively involved. Just like every week, Romeda and the other elected representatives met earlier in August with Ali, the project field coordinator, inside a communal bamboo and tarpaulin structure to discuss the situation at the camp. The meeting initially focused on finding new private accommodation for a dozen displaced Rohingya who lost their shelter due to landslides two months ago and now live in a communal space. 