Source :https://www.cnbc.com/2018/08/13/what-happens-in-turkey-wont-stay-in-turkey-why-this-debt-crisis-co.html
Content :The markets have seen much of this movie before: a heavily indebted country finds itself in crisis, the currency plunges and talk quickly turns to contagion and, ultimately, an expensive globally financed bailout. Where the other debt crises generally involved government borrowing, Turkey's is mostly a corporate story , making the bailout mechanics more complicated and thus raising fears that what started in a small country with only marginal systemic importance on its face could quickly escalate. Nixon said that while the crisis does not appear to have major global implications, a strong U.S. dollar coupled with weakening emerging market currencies could fuel the problem. To date, the debt emergencies in Greece, Cyprus, Italy and other euro zone countries — not to mention Argentina, Malaysia and perhaps Pakistan before long — have had limited global spillovers. Yet investors continue to worry which country will trigger the next calamity along the lines of the 1997 Asian financial crisis that looked contained on the surface but soon turned contagious. Trump's move helped sink the Turkish lira even more, while the currency has tumbled amid a series of questionable fiscal and monetary decisions by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. "Global investors are now targeting countries with similar economic challenges, whether they be bloated current account deficits, inflationary pressures or high debts denominated in foreign currencies (Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia, and South Africa come mind first and foremost)," Rosenberg wrote. "Italy is the country to watch for signs that the proverbial butterfly wings in Ankara (or anywhere else) are setting off a storm in developed economy capital markets," added Nick Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research, referring to the classic chaos theory scenario. Ultimately, there's still a prevailing sense that the Turkey situation will be resolved without any great global calamity, once again allowing market to dodge worries about another debt crisis, whether it's in Italy or anywhere else. Trump, for instance, has gone through multiple rounds of threatening a heavy hand with countries before backing off once he gets at least lip service paid to his demands. 