Source :https://www.cnn.com/2018/08/14/politics/primaries-connecticut-minnesota-vermont-wisconsin-what-to-watch/index.html
Content :Tuesday's races in Minnesota and Wisconsin will give an indication of just how high Democratic enthusiasm is going into 2018 and if the party can successfully defend its seats even in Trump territory. President Trump endorsed Republican Pete Stauber in the 8th District's GOP primary to fill the open seat left by Democratic Rep. Rick Nolan. Dan Malloy's deep unpopularity in this state have Republicans eyeing the Connecticut gubernatorial race as a potential pickup during an otherwise tough election cycle. On the Democratic side, former energy executive Christine Hallquist, activists Brenda Siegel and James Ehlers, and 14-year-old Ethan Sonneborn are vying for their party's nod. Democratic Sen. Tina Smith, who was appointed to fill Franken's seat, is running for her party's nomination against Republican-turned-Democrat Richard Painter, a former White House ethics lawyer under President George W. Bush. Democrats think they can win some of the 23 seats needed to regain control of the House, but Republicans are excited about their candidate in MN-08, former pro hockey player and police officer Pete Stauber, for whom Trump held an election rally in June. Hagedorn first must beat conservative state Sen. Carla Nelson, who has attracted support from the NRA and megadonors Richard Uihlein and Paul Singer. The winner will face likely Democratic nominee Dan Feehan, a veteran and former acting Assistant Secretary of Defense under President Barack Obama. Either State Senator Leah Vukmir, who has the support of the Wisconsin Republican establishment, or veteran Kevin Nicholson, once a rising star in the Democratic Party before he commenced an ideological about-face, will face an uphill battle against Baldwin's massive cash advantage and leads against both in head-to-head polling. Voters in Wisconsin -- who were critical to President Donald Trump's 2016 victory -- will signal tonight if they are sticking with him or beginning to look for another option on who represents them in their state and in Washington. 