Source :https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/prosecution-rests-after-two-weeks-of-testimony-in-manafort-case/2018/08/13/6eb9a94c-9f30-11e8-8e87-c869fe70a721_story.html
Content :Prosecutors rested their case Monday against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort after two weeks of testimony detailing the million-dollar lies they say he told to the IRS and banks that loaned him money. The six-man, six-woman jury in Alexandria, Va., is expected to hear closing arguments later this week, and Monday’s session ended without defense lawyers signaling how many witnesses — if any — they intend to call to rebut the government’s case. Manafort, 69, faces the prospect of spending the rest of his life in prison if he is convicted on many of the 18 charges of lying on tax forms and loan applications in the case brought by special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, who is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election and related matters. Ellis has repeatedly expressed skepticism over points raised by the government, to the frustration of prosecutors, who have urged him not to misstate facts or law in the jury’s presence. The prosecution had planned to rest its case last week, but an unknown issue that the judge kept under seal delayed the start of proceedings for several hours that day. When Manafort changed the terms of a proposed loan, the bank’s president wanted to reject it but was overruled by Calk, Brennan testified. As the prosecution case neared its end, defense lawyers said they intended to argue that Manafort did not own enough of his company to require him to disclose such accounts. Manafort faces a second trial next month in the District on charges of failing to register as a lobbyist for a foreign government and conspiring to tamper with witnesses. Friedrich became the second federal judge to find that higher-court precedents “make clear that the Acting Attorney General has the necessary statutory authority” to name a special counsel under the appointments clause of the Constitution. Concord has pleaded not guilty to charges that it conspired to obstruct the 2016 U.S. election by funding a coordinated social media propaganda campaign, run by the Internet Research Agency of St. Petersburg, that pushed voters toward Republican candidate Donald Trump and away from Democrat Hillary Clinton. 