Source :https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2018/aug/14/ben-stokes-trial-cleared-affray-brawl-outside-bristol-nightclub-england-cricketer
Content :Following almost two and a half hours of deliberation, a jury of six men and six women at Bristol crown court acquitted the Durham all-rounder after he gave evidence saying he had acted in self-defence. Stokes was on trial alongside Ryan Ali, 28, whom he was alleged to have punched unconscious in the brawl near Mbargo nightclub in the early hours of 25 September last year. A third man, Ryan Hale, 27, was acquitted of the charge last Thursday on the directions of the judge, Peter Blair QC. The cricketer maintained that he had stepped in to defend two men, whom he claimed were the target of homophobic abuse by Ali and Hale, which was denied. His lawyer, Gordon Cole QC, told jurors it was up to the prosecution to prove Stokes had not acted in self-defence, but there were gaps in the evidence that should cause the jury to be “massively concerned”. He said Stokes had been consistent that he had acted in self-defence from the moment of his arrest, which happened after a night out with his teammates after England’s victory over the West Indies in a one-day match in the city. Ali, who sustained a fractured eye socket – the court was told he continued to have problems with his vision – denied there had been homophobic abuse. Bodycam footage of Ben Stokes inside police car – video
An Avon and Somerset police spokesman said: “We carried out a thorough independent investigation into the events of 25 September before passing a comprehensive file of evidence to the Crown Prosecution Service [CPS], which subsequently made the decision to charge. “Having reviewed the evidence, the jury has concluded the actions of the defendants did not amount to affray and we respect this decision.” The two men who were allegedly subjected to homophobic abuse, Kai Barry and William O’Connor, did not give evidence and no statements were read from them during the trial. 