Source :https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/aug/14/scotlands-mountain-hare-population-severe-decline
Content :Culling by grouse moor managers is being blamed for the drastic decline of mountain hares on eastern Scottish moorlands to less than 1% of the level recorded more than 60 years ago. From 1954 to 1999 the mountain hare population on moorland sites decreased by nearly 5% every year, which ecologists attributed to the planting of conifer forests on former grouse moors. Dr Adam Watson, an ecologist for the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology who has been studying mountain hares for 75 years, said: “Having counted mountain hares across the moors and high tops of the eastern Highlands since 1943, I find the decline in numbers of these beautiful animals both compelling and of great concern. Gamekeepers and estate managers claim the unregulated mountain hare culls limit the spread of ticks, protect trees and safeguard fragile environments, and a policy of voluntary restraint is in place. “Our counts in recent years have found robust hare populations close to where this paper appears to be reporting very few,” he said. “Now this paper is published we look forward to reviewing it, especially how the counts were made, because assessing hare numbers accurately is challenging.” The Scottish government is to review grouse moor management next year and Noble called for a coordinated count of mountain hares to better safeguard local populations. He added: “It is also important the grouse moor community take on the challenge of assessing hare numbers themselves and does not ignore public concerns about the culling of this charismatic species.” Duncan Orr Ewing, head of species and land management at the charity in Scotland , said: “We consider that large-scale population reduction culls are both illegal under EU law and unwarranted as a method for controlling grouse disease. “Management of this species should now be more tightly controlled by Scottish Natural Heritage to safeguard mountain hare populations.” 