Source :https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/aug/14/chelsea-manning-to-discuss-cambridge-analytica-during-london-visit
Content :Chelsea Manning will discuss the Cambridge Analytica scandal and other issues around technology and democracy during her first appearance in the UK later this year. Manning was released from prison after being sentenced in 2013 in violation of the US Espionage Act for disclosing classified government documents to WikiLeaks . The UK-based company, an offshoot of an American military contractor called SCL Group, offered electoral services to politicians across the world, including the Ted Cruz and Donald Trump campaigns in the US. Publicly, this included creating and buying digital advertising; privately, according to claims made in secret filming by then-CEO Alexander Nix, it may have extended to honeytrap stings and other "dark arts". The whistleblower has been asked to talk about the rise of artificial intelligence, the state of the data economy and the role of algorithms in public policy. She will also talk about Cambridge Analytica , the political consulting firm that worked for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and harvested raw data from up to 87m Facebook profiles. Other issues that will be discussed by the former US army intelligence analyst include the Panama Papers , documents showing the myriad ways in which the rich can exploit secretive offshore tax regimes. “The underlining agenda was always that we connect culture production to social and political meaning and, I hope, show that the power of an individual can change the world through bravery, courage, determination and vision. Since her release from prison, Manning has said pressures and difficulties with mainstream outlets had forced her to send the documents directly to WikiLeaks but she has never apologised or expressed regret. Manning will also talk at the dinner about queer and transgender rights and her role supporting defendants who were part of the anti-capitalist Disrupt J20 protest. 