Source :http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/revolution-nicaragua-student-protesters-180807123154246.html
Content :Lyris Solis Gonzalez didn't realise her classes had been cancelled when she turned up at the University of Engineering (UNI) in Nicaragua's capital Managua on April 19. Today, Solis Gonzalez is one of the many Nicaraguan students who live in a safe house, hiding from the persecution that has seen many of her peers arrested, injured, or even killed. By the time President Daniel Ortega scrapped the pension reforms that initially ignited the protests the week before, nearly two dozen people - many of them students - had been killed, further fomenting outrage among Nicaraguans. "The youth and particularly university students have been at the heart of this mobilisation," said Elvira Cuadra, an associate and former director at the Nicaragua-based Institute for Strategic Studies and Public Policy (IEEPP). Another was shot with rubber bullets in the head and in his back Late in the morning, gunmen arrived, she recalled, identifying them as police and paramilitary groups. Since April, Ortega and Murillo have persistently denied culpability for the deaths of protesters, accusing, both the US and opposition parties of fomenting the unrest in an effort to topple his government. In May, during a meeting that was part of a Church-mediated political dialogue, Ortega accused universities of housing criminals and referred to police as victims of violence. In a statement issued on July 18, the student body blamed "various political actors" for waging a "hate campaign" aimed "delegitimising our institutions with the goal of creating chaos and fear in the population". He swiftly became the head of the country's military government and in 1984 was elected president, maintaining a Marxist rhetoric and allying himself with the Soviet Union. After years of growing concerns over Ortega's grip on power, the crackdown on the student-led protests against social security reforms was the final straw, giving way to what Monica Baltodano has termed a "civic uprising". 