Source :https://www.cnbc.com/2018/08/14/turkish-lira-recovers-sharply-against-the-dollar-after-record-nosedive.html
Content :The Turkish lira recovered from its record low in Tuesday morning trading, strengthening around 6 percent against the dollar after Turkey's central bank pledged to provide liquidity. Monday saw the lira hit a record low of 7.2362 to the dollar, down nearly 10 percent in one day. The bounce back may stem from "relief that the [bank] got through yesterday without resort to capital controls, or some more extreme scenario," said Timothy Ash, senior emerging markets strategist at Bluebay Asset Management, who added that there was so far no run on Turkey's banks. Turkey's markets were rocked the previous week as President Donald Trump announced sanctions on Ankara over its continued detention of American pastor Andrew Brunson , who is held on charges of espionage and involvement in Turkey's failed 2016 coup. As the lira fell on the sanctions news, Turkish President Recep Erdogan urged his countrymen to buy lira as part of a "national struggle" and claimed the U.S. was waging "economic warfare" on its NATO ally. Erdogan has openly advocated against his central bank raising interest rates despite an overheating economy with more than 15 percent inflation and a widening current account deficit. Self-inflicted crisis Investors have not been reassured over the central bank's independence as it continues to avoid hiking rates, particularly on the back of Erdogan's new and more powerful executive presidency, won in a snap election last June. "As quickly as the issues escalated in the last four to five weeks, a solution could be found, (through) assurances from the central bank on what they're doing," said Tomas Kinmoth, fixed income strategist at ABN Amro, speaking on CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" on Tuesday. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index on Monday hit its lowest point since early 2016 , erasing a July rebound in stocks. "Erdogan does not want to raise interest rates… We're now in that awful vicious spiral environment where until rates are increased, the lira will remain under pressure, and if the lira remains under pressure there are valid concerns over corporate solvency and banking crisis." 