Source :https://www.cnbc.com/2018/08/14/musk-working-with-goldman-sachs-silver-lake-on-taking-tesla-private.html
Content :Reuters reported, citing a source, that Silver Lake said it is not currently discussing participating as an investor in Musk's proposed take-private deal. The wire service added that a source said Silver Lake was offering its assistance to Musk without compensation and had not been hired as a financial adviser in an official capacity. Musk sought to clear up questions around taking his electric vehicle company private earlier on Monday, saying his claim last week that the necessary funding had been secured was based on repeated and ongoing conversations with the Saudis. "Going back almost two years, the Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund has approached me multiple times about taking Tesla private," Musk said in a blog post published Monday . The Saudi sovereign fund declined to comment when reached by CNBC, but is considering raising its holdings in Telsa, the Wall Street Journal reported later Monday citing unnamed sources. Tesla has been battling wild stock swings and widespread scrutiny in the week following Musk's tweet last Tuesday. The SEC reportedly intensified previous inquiries into Tesla based on the tweet, which may have violated a rule that prohibits publicly traded companies from announcing plans to buy or sell securities if executives don't intend to follow through, don't have the means to complete the deal or are flat out trying to manipulate the stock price. Going back almost two years, the Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund has approached me multiple times about taking Tesla private. I left the July 31st meeting with no question that a deal with the Saudi sovereign fund could be closed, and that it was just a matter of getting the process moving. Another critical point to emphasize is that before anyone is asked to decide on going private, full details of the plan will be provided, including the proposed nature and source of the funding to be used. 