Source :https://www.cnbc.com/2018/08/14/chinas-economy-cools-further-as-investment-growth-hits-a-record-low.html
Content :Employees working on a production line of clothes for export at a factory in Xiayi county, in Shangqiu in China's central Henan province. With the trade war threatening more pressure on China's already slowing economy, Beijing has shifted its focus to boosting domestic demand and is taking a more measured approach in its campaign to reduce financial risks and debt, which has pushed up borrowing costs and triggered a rising number of defaults. "Admittedly, infrastructure spending may soon bottom out given the recent shift toward a looser fiscal stance and monetary easing should eventually drive a turnaround in credit growth," Julian Evans-Pritchard, senior China economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note. The Shanghai "Nifty 50" stock index fell about 0.8 percent after the disappointing data, which added to a sour mood in global financial markets. Weakening domestic demand The pace of fixed asset investment was the weakest on record going back to early 1996, according to data on Reuters Eikon. Retail sales also missed expectations, with Chinese consumers more reluctant to spend on everything from cosmetics and other everyday goods to big-ticket items such as home appliances and furniture. Business surveys point to weakening export orders and there are concerns that a protracted trade battle could produce a sharper Chinese slowdown than expected just a few months ago. New construction starts jumped 32.4 percent on-year, likely buoyed by stronger home sales, improved funding conditions for cash-strapped developers and the government's heavy spending on public housing. The shift to stimulus measures has raised fears among some China watchers that Beijing is returning to its old playbook of debt-fueled growth, undermining its multi-year push to reduce riskier lending practices and a mountain of debt. But unless conditions deteriorate markedly, most economists believe Beijing will stick with its deleveraging campaign, albeit at a more cautious pace, as it waits to see how the trade dispute plays out. 