Source :http://us.cnn.com/2018/08/13/politics/democrats-nervous-gallup-poll-analysis/index.html
Content :(Republicans are less sanguine about socialism, with just 16% holding a positive view of it while 71% have a favorable opinion of capitalism.) Numbers like that come as a strain of socialism grows stronger within the Democratic Party -- as evidenced by Bernie Sanders' surprisingly strong showing in the 2016 Democratic presidential primary process and the stunning upset of Rep. Joe Crowley, D-New York, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. "Democrats are a big tent party," Ocasio Cortez told NBC's Chuck Todd earlier this summer when asked about her alignment with socialism. The problem for Democrats seeking to retake the White House in 2020 is that President Donald Trump is already gearing up to use the victories of Ocasio-Cortez and others like her inspired by Sanders' 2016 campaign as a way to paint the party as deeply out of touch with the average American. Polls like this one will only embolden Trump and his supporters to make the case that if Democrats win in 2020 they will move to abolish ICE, institute single-payer health insurance and bust the budget. Even before Democrats get to that point, however, they need to negotiate their own internal politics as to whether Ocasio-Cortez and her ilk represent the future of the Democratic Party or simply a small rump group that should not be taken as a signal of much of anything about where the party is headed. California Rep. Maxine Waters, certainly never mistaken for a moderate, puts herself squarely in the latter camp. The Gallup data suggests that Waters may be on the wrong side of that argument, however. While Gallup didn't provide party breakdowns on that question, you can assume that young Democrats are likely to have even more positive views of socialism than that 51%. The Point: No matter who Democrats nominate, Trump will seek to use Sanders and Ocasio-Cortez as faces of a party that would rather see socialism than capitalism as the governing economic philosophy of the country. 