Source :http://us.cnn.com/2018/08/13/politics/omarosa-white-house-diversity/index.html
Content :White House deputy press secretary Hogan Gidley said in a statement to CNN on Monday that Trump's staff "is focused on getting results for all Americans." "The President hires people to execute his policies and his staff is diverse in race, gender, religion and background. The lack of diversity also gained attention on Sunday when Kellyanne Conway, a top adviser to the President, could not name a single African-American with an office in Trump's West Wing when pressed during an interview on Sunday. Conway could only name Ja'Ron Smith, a policy adviser and special assistant to the President -- a notch below the title of deputy assistant to the President -- who works in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex. Each one of these leaders speak for a forgotten people around this country who have dealt with pain, regardless of who was President. The President has blamed "both sides" after violence sparked last year by a neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, privately referred to Haiti and some African nations as "sh**hole countries" and lambasted the protests led overwhelmingly by black NFL players. Hilary Shelton, the director of the NAACP's Washington bureau and senior vice president for advocacy and policy, called the lack of diversity among Trump's top advisers "deeply disturbing" and said it fuels Trump's insensitivity on racial issues and hurts the policy process overall. "It really is outrageous that such an important inner circle is not reflective of the great diversity of the people of the United States of America," Shelton said. Before Obama, President George W. Bush's two secretaries of state were black and one of them, Condoleezza Rice, also previously served as his national security adviser. Manigault Newman was the director of communications for the Office of Public Liaison and an assistant to the President for nearly a year until her firing last December. 