Source :http://us.cnn.com/2018/08/13/politics/omarosa-white-house-paranoia/index.html
Content :Nevertheless, the tapes have only deepened a pre-existing sense of paranoia among Trump staffers, according to senior administration officials, fueling an underlying suspicion that everyone inside the West Wing is out for themselves. The White House has no way of knowing how many tapes Manigault Newman might have, the official said, even as they explore legal avenues for preventing their release and punishing her for making them. Trump himself used the tactic in his life as a private businessman and the question of whether he's taping his conversations in the Oval Office arose last year when he suggested there might be recordings of an encounter with former FBI Director James Comey (none ever materialized). Manigault Newman alleges in her book that Trump's campaign offered her a $15,000 per month payment in exchange for signing a binding document saying she wouldn't disclose information the President or his agents deemed confidential. Other former West Wing staffers have landed in similarly paying gigs: Keith Schiller, Trump's longtime bodyguard and one-time director of Oval Office operations, makes $15,000 per month advising the Republican National Committee on security arrangements for the 2020 GOP convention. Trump later hit back at a claim Manigault Newman made in a series of media interviews where she alleged the President used a racial slur on the set of "The Apprentice." @MarkBurnettTV called to say that there are NO TAPES of the Apprentice where I used such a terrible and disgusting word as attributed by Wacky and Deranged Omarosa," Trump tweeted, tagging the former executive producer of the show. But neither Sanders nor other White House officials provided an explanation for why Trump hired Manigault Newman in the first place to manage communications for the Office of Public Liaison. Trump himself came the closest to an explanation on Monday morning, writing on Twitter that he'd heard his aide was performing poorly in her job and antagonizing others, but that he remained enamored by her then-unyielding support. Earlier, Manigault Newman released a tape of chief of staff John Kelly doing the firing in the White House Situation Room. 