Source :https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/progressive-groups-keith-ellison-domestic-abuse-allegations_us_5b71fa9de4b0bdd0620c11e9
Content :Their reticence to speak reflects a desire to see more evidence before judging his guilt, rather than an interest in shielding him from scrutiny, top progressives said privately. The DNC, the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Our Revolution and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), who led calls for the resignation of then-Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), declined requests for comment. The Progressive Change Campaign Committee, Credo Action, Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party Chairman Ken Martin and spokespeople for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), a key Ellison ally, did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s inquiries. Democracy for America, one of many liberal groups that backed Ellison’s run for chairman of the DNC, offered a statement affirming female accusers without commenting on the veracity of the claims made by the ex-girlfriend, Karen Monahan, a Sierra Club organizer. “Democracy for America is not in a position to evaluate allegations made against a candidate in the closing hours of an election, but, as an organization, we believe that every woman who tells her story deserves to be heard,” said DFA spokeswoman Annie Weinberg. “Any time we see allegations, we take it seriously, and we are watching what is happening in Minnesota to understand the facts of this particular situation,” said the DAGA’s executive director, Sean Rankin. The accusations against Ellison came to light on Saturday night, less than three days before Tuesday’s competitive primary for the Democratic nomination for Minnesota attorney general. Toni Van Pelt, National Organization for Women In a follow-up report, Minnesota Public Radio analyzed hundreds of text messages between Ellison and Monahan that she provided. Women who have survived abuse often suffer feelings of shame and fear of censure that prevents them from coming forward, Van Pelt said. Ellison’s “brief response pales in comparison to the specific details offered by a son who said he saw video on his mother’s computer of her physical abuse,” Foley said in a statement published by Fox 9 , a Minneapolis–St. 