Source :https://www.npr.org/2018/08/14/638371914/what-to-watch-in-tuesdays-primaries-wisconsin-minnesota-connecticut-and-vermont
Content :This year's been dominated by talk of Democratic gains, but today Republicans will pick nominees in several places where they hope to flip House seats and even governors' mansions. Two Republicans who failed to win the White House are hoping voters will elect them to lead their states for a third time — but one's trying to make a political comeback after almost a decade out of office. But with winds blowing more favorably their way this year, and as Walker seeks a third term, his numbers have dropped in the state ever since his failed 2016 presidential bid. Ryan's retirement in the 1st Congressional District leaves an open seat that Democrats had already hoped to compete for, even before the House speaker decided not to run again. But his primary opponent, teacher and Janesville School Board member Cathy Myers, has criticized him for multiple past arrests, including a DUI, and his delinquency on child support payments. Democratic Sen. Tina Smith, the state's former lieutenant governor who was appointed to the seat after Sen. Al Franken resigned amid allegations of sexual misconduct, is trying to win her primary for a full term. She's the favorite against several candidates, the most notable of which is former George W. Bush ethics lawyer Richard Painter, a vocal Trump critic who decided to switch parties to run for the Senate. The Connecticut GOP had endorsed former Meriden Mayor Manny Santos, while retired psychology professor Ruby Corby O'Neill and businessman Rich DuPont are also running. Christine Hallquist, transgender candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination to run for governor of Vermont, speaks with supporter Asfar Basha in Burlington, Vt. Wilson Ring/AP
hide caption Christine Hallquist, transgender candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination to run for governor of Vermont, speaks with supporter Asfar Basha in Burlington, Vt. 