Source :https://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-afghanistan-attack/taliban-militants-overrun-afghan-army-base-capture-dozens-of-soldiers-idUKKBN1KZ0AT
Content :KABUL (Reuters) - Afghan troops backed by U.S forces gained control over large parts of the embattled city of Ghazni on Tuesday, officials said, while reports of a Taliban attack in another province raised new questions about Afghanistan’s prospects. An Afghan National Army (ANA) soldier keeps watch at a checkpoint on the Ghazni - Kabul highway, Afghanistan August 14, 2018.REUTERS/Mohammad Ismail Heavy fighting has rocked Ghazni since late last week, exposing the government’s failure to ensure the security of the strategic city on the main road between the capital, Kabul, and the south of the country. Communications with Ghazni were cut when its telecommunications masts were destroyed in the fighting but as contact was restored and people escaped the city, a grim picture was emerging. Video footage arriving in Kabul on Tuesday showed bodies and burned-out vehicles strewn in streets lined with destroyed buildings. Defence ministry spokesman Mohammad Radmanish said government forces in Ghazni were “reasserting control over strategic checkpoints”. Smoke rising from Ghazni City in Afghanistan after heavy fighting is seen in this still image taken from a video by Ariana News on August 13, 2018. Hundreds of people have been killed and wounded in the fighting, which followed months of warnings from officials in the city about its vulnerability as the Taliban tightened their grip on the surrounding countryside. While the security forces appeared to reassert control over Ghazni, the Taliban attacked and seized large parts of an army base in the northern province of Faryab, killing at least 10 soldiers and capturing dozens over two days of clashes, officials said. Western diplomats said the fighting raised questions about the viability of the U.S. strategy to end the war, which for the past year has focussed on pressing the militants, largely with more air strikes, to force them to the negotiating table. 