Source :https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/world/europe/uk-parliament-car-crash-.html
Content :Police officers near the site where a car crashed outside the Houses of Parliament in London on Tuesday.CreditHannah Mckay/ReutersLONDON — A car struck and injured several pedestrians and cyclists, then crashed into a security barrier just outside the Houses of Parliament in London early Tuesday, in what the police said they were treating as a terrorist attack. About a dozen armed police officers swarmed a silver Ford and pointed their weapons at it, before handcuffing the driver. Officers set up a security cordon around Parliament Square, with around a dozen police cars and ambulances parked at the site, while helicopters circled above. Armed officers stood guard, and video footage on Twitter showed them urging people to leave the area. The Parliament building, also called the Palace of Westminster, is bounded by some of the city’s busiest streets, with traffic passing much closer than it does to the White House or the United States Capitol, for example, making security a challenge. Witnesses told television stations that the episode seemed deliberate; the car was traveling too fast, they said, and did not try to avoid striking people or the security barrier. A still from video footage of armed officers surrounding the car after the crash.CreditITN, via Associated PressOne witness, Jason Williams, told ITV’s “Good Morning Britain”: “Basically, I’ve seen a man driving a vehicle, and he’s gone into one of the bollards. Another witness, Barry Williams, told the BBC that the car had accelerated after hitting a group of cyclists, rather than trying to slow down. Prime Minister Theresa May said on Twitter , “My thoughts are with those injured,” and she thanked “the emergency services for their immediate and courageous response.” Parliament was already surrounded by lines of crash bollards, balustrades and steel barricades, put in place after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States and the bombings on July 7, 2005, in London. 