Source :https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2018/aug/13/jeremy-corbyn-not-involved-munich-olympics-massacre-wreath-laying
Content :Jeremy Corbyn has said he was present but not involved at a wreath-laying for individuals behind the group that carried out the Munich Olympic massacre, a partial admission that has led to a row with Israel’s prime minister. The Palestine Liberation Organisation’s intelligence chief Atef Bseiso – who has been accused of involvement in the Munich Olympics massacre – was killed in Paris in 1992, purportedly by Mossad. Corbyn was speaking two days after the Daily Mail unearthed pictures of the Labour MP holding a wreath at the event, near the graves of four Palestinian leaders believed to be connected to Black September, which carried out the terror attack on Israelis at the 1972 Olympics, in which 11 people died. “The laying of a wreath by Jeremy Corbyn on the graves of the terrorist who perpetrated the Munich massacre and his comparison of Israel to the Nazis deserves unequivocal condemnation from everyone – left, right and everything in between,” the Israeli prime minister wrote. Labour said Netanyahu’s criticism was “false” and Corbyn responded by attacking the Israeli prime minister for presiding over the deaths of scores of people in Gaza. “What deserves unequivocal condemnation is the killing of over 160 Palestinian protesters in Gaza by Israeli forces since March, including dozens of children,” the Labour leader wrote. One of those belongs to Atef Bseiso, the PLO’s head of intelligence, who was assassinated outside a Paris hotel in 1992, and was allegedly killed by the Israeli secret service in revenge for the 1972 attack. Marie van der Zyl told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “After days of being evasive, Jeremy Corbyn has now admitted attending a memorial event for the terrorist murders of unarmed athletes. The Labour MP Margaret Hodge said the only way “Jeremy Corbyn can put this issue to bed” is to “adopt the internationally agreed definition of antisemitism in full”. She said: “Until he does that, incidents such as his presence at the laying of wreaths at the graves of those responsible for torturing and murdering innocent Jewish Israeli athletes in Munich will continue to emerge.” 