Source :https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2018/aug/14/australian-senator-calls-for-final-solution-to-immigration-problem
Content :“The record of Muslims who have already come to this country in terms of rates of crime, welfare dependency and terrorism are the worst of any migrant and vastly exceed another immigrant group,” he said. Anning contended Australia should return to a position where immigrants were not entitled to receive welfare payments for the first five years after their arrival. “In the days of Menzies, immigrants arriving here were not allowed to apply for welfare and that attracted exactly the right sort of hardworking people this country needed”. The Labor MP Tim Watts said Anning’s contribution was beyond the pale, and he warned the central ideas in the speech were becoming normalised in Australian political debate. “The reality of Australian society – our neighbourhoods, our schools, our sporting clubs, our community groups – do not reflect the racial divisions that we see pursued by conservatives in our media and political debate. “It is the conservatives who are out of touch with the successful multicultural nation that Australians enjoy in their everyday lives, but Malcolm Turnbull is too weak to state this simple truth. “As I called for a plebiscite on the immigration mix, this baseless and ridiculous criticism is simply an effort to play the man and not the ball”. “It is ironic that those on the left such as the Greens and some Labor who seek to criticise me are the same people who refused to support my efforts to stop Australia funding the Palestinian Authority who finance terrorist attacks against innocent Israeli women and children”. He criticised various Turnbull government ministers for their rhetoric on African gangs and ethnic separatism in a fiery final speech before departing his post at the Australian Human Rights Commission. Soutphommasane said when he took the job as race discrimination commissioner five years ago he “wouldn’t have expected that the biggest threats to racial harmony would come from within our parliaments and from sections of our media”. 