Source :https://www.wired.com/story/wildfire-smoke-kills-where-you-dont-expect-it/
Content :More than 3,000 firefighters are working to contain the Mendocino Complex Fire 100 miles north of San Francisco, now the largest in California history , and over the weekend, lightning strikes sparked dozens of new wildfires across the state of Washington. “Minnesota actually gets just about the most smoke days of any state in the US, you just don’t notice it,” says Nolan Miller, an economist at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who studies the deadly health impacts of temperature and weather extremes on the elderly. Historically, it’s been difficult for researchers to conclusively connect wildfire smoke with specific health outcomes because of patchy data—fires tend to occur in rural areas that often lack air pollution monitoring coverage and where few people live. A 2016 study predicts that climate change will drive almost 60 percent more “smoke waves”—or multiple days of high particulate pollution from wildfires—across much of the US by 2050. By 2050, an estimated 83.7 million people over the age of 65 will call the US home, nearly doubling the current population—and a paper published in April found that bad smoke days during California’s 2015 wildfire season caused spikes in emergency room visits, with the most pronounced impact on patients over 65. “It was the older population that was really driving that effect,” says Ana Rappold, an epidemiologist at the Environmental Protection Agency and an author on the study. And unlike folks who suffer from respiratory ailments like asthma and COPD, people with pre-existing heart issues aren’t particularly aware of how bad the smoke can be for them, as a recent study by researchers at the Centers for Disease and Control concluded. To combat these and other gaps in public understanding, Rappold is leading up a citizen science project at the EPA to teach people about the dangers of wildfire smoke. Last August, her team released an app called Smoke Sense , which asked users to answer questions about conditions in their zip code, any symptoms they might be feeling—runny nose, coughing, chest pain, anxiety—and what they’re doing to reduce their exposure. They also expect to release a newer, slicker version in the next few weeks, which will provide information about local air pollution and a 24-hour smoke prediction forecast. 