Source :https://www.wired.com/review/review-ge-smart-countertop-microwave-with-scan-to-cook-technology/
Content :By chance, at the time I had the microwave in my test kitchen, I was reading Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's Wind, Sand and Stars and came across a passage about the role of machines in our lives. The two of us stood in the center of the frozen food section where I tried to cross reference the selection on hand with a pared-down version of GE’s 7,000-plus item list. Those high-trafficked grocery aisles are their own circle of hell on a good day, but when I tried to find a few specific things on a spreadsheet, it seemed as if all their boxes had been mixed together in a hopper then shelved with a confetti cannon. Eventually, I found a few things: Stouffer's Meat Lovers Lasagna, Marie Callender's Turkey Pot Pie, Cherry Port Pork from EatingWell, and Premium Pepperoni & Sausage Pizza Hot Pockets. One might argue that fresh veggies don't have bar codes, but it couldn't be that difficult to include a laminated page with them in the instruction manual which you could tape to the side of the appliance. The tech guy flipped a switch somewhere and suddenly everybody between me and Tijuana could microwave our bar-coded burritos in peace and get on with experiencing the full weirdness of the setup. Instead of reading the back of the box, keying the time in on the microwave's keypad, and hitting start, I could now take my phone out of my pocket, ignore the push notifications, navigate to the home screen, swipe twice to get to the screen with the app, open the app, click the bar code button, scan the bar code on the box, and cook my food. You can also ask it to defrost all sorts of different meats like chicken, ground beef, fish, or hot dogs by weight—though a little bit of sleuthing revealed that they all get the same treatment. One trick I'd love for any microwave to make easy to do: thawing a stick of butter without turning it into a multi-state farrago of dairy fat and water vapor when you pop open the door. Considering we're mid soft launch, if you're interested in following the rabbit down the hole, it won't cost you much and maybe they'll get around to fleshing out the vegetable selection or figure out my frozen butter daydream. 