Source :https://www.wired.com/story/your-chickens-salmonella-problem-is-worse-than-you-think/
Content :According to data released in June, more than a third of the country’s slaughterhouses are currently failing to meet safety standards developed to try and prevent salmonella contamination on the chicken we buy. As of June 30, 2018, according to the FSIS’s latest report , 35 percent of the nation’s 154 large chicken-slaughter facilities—which churn out the vast majority of the drumsticks, thighs, and breasts shrink-wrapped on supermarket meat counters—failed to meet the inspection service’s standard for chicken parts testing that took place over the previous 64 weeks. When a facility gets category 3 status, the FSIS notifies the poultry company and it is “expected to consider these data in their food safety system and take action,” she said. But when you take a step back to look at the trend over the past few years, a disturbing picture emerges: The nation’s large slaughterhouses appear to be getting worse, not better, at keeping their finished chicken free of salmonella. Three companies—Tyson, Pilgrim’s Pride (majority-owned by Brazilian meat giant JBS), and Sanderson Farms— account for 46 percent of the chicken sold in the United States. A recent government study found that people in their kitchens performing tasks like cutting poultry “failed to successfully wash their hands 97 percent of the times they should have.” “Although USDA designates a processing facility as a Category 1, 2, or 3 facility based on its Salmonella Verification Testing Program, the categorization does not convey the presence or absence of a food safety risk.” Even so, the company added that it is taking steps to reduce salmonella in its chicken: “If these additional interventions continue at their current rate of success for whole carcasses, we expect better results throughout the end of this year and into 2019.” Cross-contamination—say, using the same knife and board to cut carrots for a raw salad that you just used to slice chicken—is probably a more common cause of salmonella poisoning than undercooking, according to a 2009 study from a researcher at Germany’s Federal Office of Consumer Protection and Food Safety. A recent FSIS observational study found that people performing tasks like cutting poultry “failed to successfully wash their hands 97 percent of the times they should have.” If knowing that US supermarket chicken quite often carries salmonella isn’t chilling enough, consider this: In a recent analysis of Food and Drug Administration data, the Environmental Working Group found that “over the last five years of available data, on average, 1 in 5 strains of salmonella found on grocery store chicken were resistant to amoxicillin, a type of penicillin.” In short, it’s getting harder for doctors to treat infections from this common pathogen. 