Source :http://www.wkrb13.com/markets/276750/chiquita-brands-international-rating-lowered-to-underperform-at-zacks-cqb/
Content :Chiquita Brands International, Inc. (CBII) ,along with its subsidiaries, is an international marketer and distributor of bananas and pineapples sold under the Chiquita and other brand names in 70 countries, and packaged salads sold under the Fresh Express and other brand names primarily in the United States. The Company operates in three segments: Bananas; Salads and Healthy Snacks, and Other Produce. The Bananas segment includes the sourcing (purchase and production), transportation, marketing and distribution of bananas. The Salads and Healthy Snacks segment includes ready-to-eat, packaged salads, and other value-added products, such as healthy snacking products, fresh vegetable and fruit ingredients used in food service, processed fruit ingredients. The Other Produce segment includes the sourcing, marketing and distribution of whole fresh produce other than bananas. The primary product of the Other Produce segment is pineapples. Sub-Industry Packaged Foods & Meats EPS (Most Recent Fiscal Year) N/A What is Chiquita Brands International's stock symbol? Chiquita Brands International trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol "CQB." How were Chiquita Brands International's earnings last quarter? Chiquita Brands International Inc (NYSE:CQB) posted its quarterly earnings results on Thursday, November, 6th. The company reported ($0.20) earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of ($0.15) by $0.05. The business had revenue of $739 million for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $735.20 million. The firm's revenue for the quarter was up 2.2% on a year-over-year basis. During the same period last year, the firm posted ($0.38) EPS. View Chiquita Brands International's Earnings History . Has Chiquita Brands International been receiving favorable news coverage? News articles about CQB stock have been trending positive this week, Accern Sentiment reports. The research group identifies positive and negative press coverage by reviewing more than 20 million blog and news sources in real time. Accern ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative one to one, with scores nearest to one being the most favorable. Chiquita Brands International earned a coverage optimism score of 0.26 on Accern's scale. They also gave media stories about the company an impact score of 45.99 out of 100, indicating that recent press coverage is somewhat unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the near future. View Recent Headlines for Chiquita Brands International . How do I buy shares of Chiquita Brands International? Shares of CQB can be purchased through any online brokerage account. Popular online brokerages with access to the U.S. stock market include Vanguard Brokerage Services, TD Ameritrade, E*TRADE, Scottrade, Fidelity and Charles Schwab. What is Chiquita Brands International's stock price today? One share of CQB stock can currently be purchased for approximately $0.9030. How can I contact Chiquita Brands International? Chiquita Brands International's mailing address is 550 S Caldwell St, CHARLOTTE, NC 28202-2633, United States. The company can be reached via phone at +1-980-6365000. Community Ranking: 2.5 out of 5 () Outperform Votes: 80 ( Vote Outperform ) Underperform Votes: 81 ( Vote Underperform ) Total Votes: 161 MarketBeat's community ratings are surveys of what our community members think about Chiquita Brands International and other stocks. Vote "Outperform" if you believe CQB will outperform the S&P 500 over the long term. Vote "Underperform" if you believe CQB will underperform the S&P 500 over the long term. You may vote once every thirty days. 