Source :http://www.marketwatch.com/story/stock-futures-ease-as-chinese-trade-payrolls-compete-2014-03-10\?link=MW_latest_news
Content :MADRID (MarketWatch) — Stock futures shifted lower in choppy trade on Monday, as investors struggled to balance weaker-than-expected China trade data with upbeat U.S. jobs numbers from last week, in a bull market that is celebrating its five-year anniversary. Coming off sharper losses out of Asia, futures for the S&P 500 index US:SPH4 fell 3.4 points to 1,874.50, while those for the Dow Jones Industrial Average US:DJH4 were down 35 points to 16,413. Futures for the Nasdaq-100 index US:NDH4 slipped 3.5 points to 3,700.75. There is no data on the docket for Monday, but a couple of Federal Reserve officials are on the calendar. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser spoke earlier out of Paris, saying the pace of tapering may be too slow . Last week, Plosser said in an interview that he was worried about how the central bank’s asset purchases are affecting the U.S. economy. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans will speak at 12:40 p.m. Eastern at Columbus State University. So far, Monday has been somewhat of a tug-of-war between some surprising trade numbers out of China and Friday’s better-than-expected jobs report. Wall Street stocks closed mostly higher on Friday , with the S&P 500 index SPX, +0.33% gaining 0.1%, notching the latest in a string of record highs. Data over the weekend showed Chinese exports unexpectedly fell 18.1% in February, compared with a year earlier, which left a trade deficit of $22.98 billion for the month. Economists had been expecting an expansion of 5%, and the number was also well off a rise of 10.6% in January. “The shock drop in exports raises serious questions about how realistic Chinese growth prospects are and casts doubt on their current target,” said Rebecca O’Keeffe, head of investment at stockbroker Interactive Investor. “This increased uncertainty is not helpful for either the commodity market or wider global-equity markets.” Asian markets fell sharply, with the Shanghai Composite Index SHCOMP, -1.34% down nearly 3%. The Nikkei 225 index NIK, +0.35% lost 1%. Also coming under pressure were the Australian dollar USDAUD, -0.7247% and copper prices US:HGK4 — the latter fell more than 1%. Oil prices were also sharply lower, with April crude CLJ4, +0.00% off more than 1%. Stock futures struggled between the flat line and losses, and European markets also traded choppy. “We think this is just the market trying to weigh out two real stories: The positive numbers from payrolls against Chinese numbers overnight, and it almost seems the positivity of payrolls has won out over China,” said James Hughes, chief market analyst at Alpari U.K. Some are cautious as the S&P 500 is up more than 170% since its March 9, 2009 low. That string of S&P 500 highs, along with levels of margin debt and a small number of prior bull markets that have made it this far, are among reasons why some investors are wary. Reuters Shipping containers are seen piled up at a port in Qingdao, Shandong province in China on Dec. 10, 2013.Hughes said that markets were also ignoring negative data that arrived in 2008, near the beginning of the euro crisis. While investors will be keeping an eye on geopolitical situations such as Ukraine, at the moment, he said it is just hard to bet against the market. Shares of Chiquita Brands International Inc. US:CQB jumped 13% in premarket. Chiquita and Fyffes PLC UK:FFY announced an all-stock merger deal worth $1.07 billion on Monday. Boeing Co. BA, +0.12% eased over 1% in premarket after The Wall Street Journal reported late Friday that the company has discovered cracks in some 787 Dreamliner jets , which will lead to a delayed delivery of some aircraft. Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. BBBY, +0.60% cut its fourth-quarter earnings-per-share outlook on Friday, blaming bad weather. Shares inched up in premarket. More must-reads from MarketWatch: Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here. 