Source :http://www.latinpost.com/articles/8677/20140310/titanfall-microsoft-releases-critically-acclaimed-fist-person-shooter-xbox-one.htm
Content :In what is arguably the biggest game release for a next generation console to date, the Xbox One will launch its heavily anticipated exclusive multi-player shooter, Titanfall, this Tuesday. Produced by Respawn Entertainment, the game is already generating massive buzz in the industry, with some early reviewers claiming it will revolutionize the genre of first-person shooters. Microsoft has heavily promoted the game since its reveal last June, hoping it will be prove the blockbuster title necessary to help push sales of its new console. Although sales of the Xbox One haven't been disappointing per se, Microsoft is far trailing behind Sony's PlayStation 4 in the console race. According to The New York Times , Sony claims to have sold more than 6 million consoles worldwide. The last sales figure reported by Microsoft was 3.9. In January alone, the PS4 outsold the Xbox nearly two to one. Analysts cite the Xbox One's heavy price tag, ($500 as opposed to the PlayStation's $400) as one of the reasons for Sony's success. There's just been little incentive for most gamers to pay the extra money for an Xbox One... until now that is. "It's hard to understate how incredibly important Titanfall is for Xbox," Yusuf Mehdi, Microsoft's chief marketing and strategy officer for devices, said in an interview with the Times. Microsoft is hoping that Titanfall will mirror the success of their other exclusive sci-fi shooter series, Halo. More than 60 million copies of Halo games have been sold since its initial release. Titanfall, developed by some of the same people who created Call of Duty, brings plenty of fresh and new ideas to the table. Set in the ruins of a war torn planet, players will command futuristic soldiers who leap and run along walls parkour-style as they battle one another. The game's main hook is in the ability to switch play-styles by piloting giant mechs known as "Titans." Titanfall is also unique in that there is no single player experience. Every mode including the campaign is played alongside others online. Titanfall will be on sale at midnight at several electronic stores nationwide. Players can also download a digital copy of the game if they choose. First Posted: Mar 10, 2014 04:58 PM EDT © 2015 Latin Post. All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission. 