Source :http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2014-03-10-titanfall-launch-review
Content :The twist, of course, is that you're playing as an unusually athletic pilot on the space frontier, able to double-jump up to two stories high thanks to your jet-boosted belt and run along walls, mocking gravity as you go. You also have access to a Titan, a hulking armoured robot that turns you from vulnerable foot soldier to towering battlefield menace. Mech suits and parkour are hardly unknown quantities in gaming, but what Respawn has done is to combine these elements - along with a generous spread of other intriguing concepts - with a simple, confident control scheme and a punchy style that not only revitalises these potentially tired ideas, but the first-person shooter genre itself. Pacific Rim and District 9 have both been on repeat play in the Respawn offices, if the game's aesthetic stylings are anything to go by.That freshness doesn't extend to the basic narrative set-up, sadly. Framed as a conflict between the ruthless military forces of the IMC and the ragged guerrilla upstarts of the Militia, the thin backdrop for Titanfall's action is as clichd as it is shallow. The storyline is dull and obvious, with a turncoat defecting from the IMC to lead the Militia - and bolting audio cut-scenes onto otherwise normal multiplayer matches is a poor way of telling a story that's none too interesting to begin with. The pace is a little less manic, newcomers will be able to survive for more than 30 seconds without being killed, and the game constantly goes out of its way to make sure that, win or lose, everyone gets to have fun. It takes roughly three minutes for your Titan to be ready - summoned into battle with a satisfying thwump as it drops from the sky - but that build time can be sped up by good combat performance. In a way it feels wrong: an egalitarian approach that flies in the face of the unforgiving elitism that drives most shooters. Respawn has cannily designed the game, though, so that things which should utterly unbalance the match and remove skill from the equation actually do the opposite. Getting into a Titan is fun - literally, since the various animations for mounting up from different angles all look incredibly cool - but it's no guarantee of domination. Returning to existing shooters after time spent on Titanfall can be jarring - they feel leaden and limiting, and you'll yearn to be able to leap to rooftops and stomp down streets once more. If you master the wall-running early on, you'll have a definite advantage - it opens up the maps to whole new areas of tactical play.You can even have the best of both worlds thanks to the Titan AI mode. Once it has dropped, you don't have to control the Titan yourself; set it to Guard or Follow mode and it'll act autonomously, gaining kills and XP on your behalf. You quickly learn that the secret to success is to swap between the two frequently, essentially operating as two distinct units at the same time. They're a third tier of combatant, mostly dim, unlikely to do any real damage and unable to swing the direction of a match, but they act as battlefield markers that skilled pilots can quickly read. It's a sharp change of direction for developers who previously skewed the genre by introducing Modern Warfare's controversial Perk and Killstreak systems - and the equivalent here marks the difference neatly. Burn Cards aren't earned for just killing other players, but handed out generously for meeting all sorts of criteria in almost 1000 ongoing ambient stats challenges. After a week of playing Titanfall on populated retail servers, we can report that the game hasn't suffered any grievous problems or technical setbacks. As such, there's seemingly no way for the game to offer local offline play in the future and even the tutorial is unavailable if servers are unresponsive. Titanfall's action is as muscular and thrilling as you'd expect, given Respawn's pedigree, but it's this new attitude towards player balance that makes it stand out. Witness the adrenalin rush of ejecting from a doomed Titan and soaring into the air for a bird's eye view of the battlefield that allows you to drop back into action with a tactical advantage. Better still is the idea of evacuation, a stroke of match design genius that ends every round not with a hard cut to the leaderboard but with an extra-time, no-respawns scramble to an exit point. It's a small and simple tweak, but one that offers just enough of a second chance, and a team-based narrative, to take the personal sting out of defeat. It's this willingness to make even losing fun that sets Titanfall apart, and suggests a more inclusive future for the FPS genre. You need to complete both the IMC and Militia campaigns in order to unlock all three Titan chassis for custom loadouts.Not all of the concessions to more inviting play are as well considered, however. Weaponry is one area where it feels like Respawn wasn't quite ready to let go of its Infinity Ward heritage; the other is the game modes themselves. Despite gameplay systems that shake up FPS tropes in enjoyable new ways, the fact that you're limited to five overly familiar play styles can't help but eat away at Titanfall's long-term appeal. Attrition is Team Deathmatch by any other name, while Hardpoint Domination is a base capture mode with three holding points per map. The trouble is that Titanfall's appeal comes from the way its ideas are intertwined, so modes that force players to focus on one aspect over another are inevitably weakened. CTF matches too often end in stalemate, and while the maps offer some interesting routes for parkour escapes, it's the least satisfying way to play. While these rather tired old modes are initially refreshed by Titanfall's reconstructed approach to FPS pacing and balance, it's not quite enough to sustain it. There's a plateau somewhere around level 25 where the rate of unlocks slows down, the matches start to fall into repetition, and the accumulation of XP, generous as it is, begins to feel the drag of the grind. Mostly, it's the same balancing act that impresses: the way that a map takes on completely different aspects from a Titan cockpit than it does from the ground. It's a different style of map-making from that practised on the Modern Warfare series, where constant, restless and relentless motion is the driving force. Titanfall maps have more corners and dead ends, more strange angles, than the frictionless ice rinks of COD. One of the most useful Burn Cards disguises you as an AI grunt - it's amazing how many players will ignore you.The naming conventions, at least, hark back to Respawn's past with curt, even blunt, one-word titles such as Lagoon, Fracture and Corporate the norm. Set in a robotics factory, the map has wide, sweeping exteriors, an enclosed courtyard, tangles of interior rooms offering multiple vantage points and - crucially - lots of rooftops and elevated walkways. The flow is different to COD's as you segue between slower-paced, pounding Titan encounters and fast and nasty quick-draw scenarios, before taking to the higher ground to survey the situation and maybe pull off some long-distance kills. Navigating these spaces is a constant pleasure, as you piggyback on enemy Titans and spring off again as they explode, using them as stepping stones to otherwise unreachable spots. "Respawn has shaken up the FPS just as surely as Infinity Ward did with Modern Warfare, and any one of Titanfall's ideas would be a fine starting point for a new era in shooter design." Respawn has shaken up the FPS just as surely as Infinity Ward did with the original Modern Warfare, and any one of Titanfall's ideas would be a fine starting point for a new era in shooter design. That it boasts several such ideas speaks highly of the studio's desire to break the repetition that has taken root in recent years. Structurally is where Titanfall shows its limitations, and the reliance on the same old standard match types feels like a concession to the restrictions the rest of the game kicks against. It's no secret that first-person shooters are in a comfortable rut, and Titanfall shakes things up perfectly - not just in terms of design, but more crucially, in how these games relate to their audience. With almost no blood and only mild swearing, the game's accessible nature is a door thrown open to everyone who has steered clear of the bullish, hyper-macho military shooters that have come to dominate the scene. In fact, Titanfall gets so much right that it's easy to start taking it for granted, as game-changing ideas become second nature so quickly and so easily. Harder to ignore are the limited and repetitive game modes and a general lack of options for refining the matchmaking. Matchmaking, too, needs work: lobbies tend to go out of balance during prolonged sessions as players drop out and teams are repopulated in odd ways. Quite simply, if you feel like you're in danger of falling out of love with multiplayer shooters, Titanfall is the game to win you back. 