Source :http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/mar/10/titanfall-video-gamet-respawn-entertainment-sci-fi-shooter
Content :Not just the usual chaos of players scurrying through buildings, blasting each other, but peripheral events, too. Gigantic star cruisers float overhead as smaller craft zip around them firing missiles at distant buildings; towering monsters lope across looming alien backdrops, attacking defensive walls; engineering robots make futile attempts to repair damaged facilities. Developer Respawn Entertainment wanted to instil in its multiplayer-only title a sense of narrative cohesion, a feeling that these distant planets exist beyond the frenzied firefights going on in the foreground. In a blogpost last summer , programmer Jon Shiring explained in clear terms the benefits of Microsoft’s ‘cloud’ platform – that ethereal marketing construct that has reared its mystical head in every Xbox One publicity drive since last May. Instead, every Titanfall bout will be on a dedicated server, ensuring all players get the same performance, and that the game experience is stable. ”We learned a lot of important lessons,” says Shiring, speaking to the Guardian days after the beta closed. We completely maxed out every data centre in Europe at one point, and we still had more people who wanted to play so we started to invisibly shuffle them over to east coast US data centres so they could take part. In his blogpost last year, Shiring admitted that the term ‘cloud computing’ has become almost meaningless, a fancy ad man’s idiom for ‘a lot of servers’. The game runs on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform, a vast infrastructure of severs with a global network of data centres. Microsoft’s business model is to rent space on the platform to web companies and even government agencies needing cloud computing resources, so this is in no way unique to Xbox One: any developer on any machine could run a cloud gaming service via Azure. The advantage for developers, though, is that, according to Shiring, Microsoft is offering access to the platform at a massively reduced rate to game makers. Studios that could never afford to harness Azure or rent their own dedicated worldwide server network, can now get on Microsoft’s. According to Shiring, the benefits aren’t just about being able to offer dedicated servers, it’s about virtualising the online experience and moving a lot of the processing tasks away from the gamer’s machine – known as the client – and toward the server. With a large network of servers available, Respawn is able to seamlessly shift players around when data centres get over-crowded, finding them spaces in other areas. And since the beta, the company has worked out how to track those ‘orphaned’ players – people who have been shifted to a more remote centre – and get them back to their nearest node when things quiten down. Titanfall is essentially taking the entire multiplayer experience and running it on the server-side - it should mean better in-game performance, smoother matchmaking, and improved social functionality. For Yusuf Mehdi, the chief marketing and strategy officer for Xbox, this is exciting stuff. “It takes advantage of the cloud architecture that we’ve built behind Xbox One , which is really new - our Thunderhead servers give you the ability to do a lot of cloud compute, which means very high performance, very fluid games - and in this case a multiplayer world that can operate at incredible performance levels.” Another key benefit of this set up is that Titanfall is able to do all its AI calculations on the server rather than on your console. This has allowed the designers to fill the landscapes with computer-controlled soldiers who get involved in the action, carrying out their own tasks and helping players. It also means that when you call in a Titan, it can function on its own accord until you get into it, either finding its way to you and following you around or guarding one location – depending on the commands you give it. Getting the computer-controlled troopers to the right level of intelligence has been a major balancing issue accroding to Shiring. Spectres are harder to fight than the regular guys, but they’re set for fun not for technical prowess - we’re not here to impress everyone with how smart we are at writing AI. They have their own thought processes – they scan the world, they look for targets, if you listen to their voice chat you’ll hear that they lose sight and call to each other, they’ll call out when you’re approaching them. • Titanfall: a complete beginners’ guide• Titanfall v Destiny – how this war will change shooters for ever Of course, a lot of gamers have questioned the value of filling the battlegrounds with AI characters, especially when human contests are limited to six players versus six, which is a low number compared to titles like Call of Duty and Battlefield. “Honestly, we just said, let’s try having AI in the world and see what it’s like - we can have them do things the player wouldn’t want to do, we can have interesting fights against them... When you spawn in and see a group of guys with their guns pointed in a certain direction, shouting and firing, it’s really natural for you to think, okay, I’ll head that way. And if you can stay on the parameter while an AI is capturing and holding a point, suddenly the game is a lot more interesting. The AI, the player counts, all these things come together to make a game that hopefully people will want to play.” Player vs system According to Shiring, access to a low-cost cloud computing network is going to change the way studios design games. “When you’re trying to rely on individual PCs or consoles as your server CPU, basically you’re stealing that resource from the player when you could be using the machine’s processing power to make the game look and play better for them - all that fun stuff. By having that reserve CPU out on the server - and it’s significant, it’s like a two-core machine– it’s a different philosophy: it becomes, well, lets use what’s there as efficiently as possible and there’s no benefit to not using it - there’s no downside to clients at all, the game just gets better. “And the bandwidth is what lets us have so many moving things in the world - we have the AI running around and the spaceships in the sky, all of this is creating network traffic , but as we’re not bandwidth constrained, it’s not this overwhelming technical task anymore. Mehdi is clearly onboard with this idea of computing tasks handled in the cloud ether. “That was the reason behind investing so heavily in getting these Thunderhead cloud servers and building our architecture. A lot of games can now offload compute-intensive tasks to the cloud architecture - we can scale that up and down as needs demand. It allows much master game design, it allows smaller studios to build incredible games because they can use our bandwidth as opposed to having to buy and run their own servers, which is costly and time consuming. I think this is really going to open up the whole open-world concept - the idea of multiplayer gaming in a large environment that’s actually living and changing.” Titanfall’s grunts and titans work in a very specific way in a constrained landscape, so it will be interesting to see how other game types utilise server-side AI. Speaking to Eurogamer last year , EA Dice chief Patrick Bach was skeptical about using the cloud in some real-time gaming calculations, calling the concept “gimmick”. ”Honestly the biggest thing is the ability to rely on dedicated servers because it frees up so much programming time,” he says. “All the client-side stuff goes away and that’s really gnarly because players can come and go at any time - the sever is the only node in the hub that’s guaranteed to stay there so if you move everything onto the server all the logic becomes really simple, which means we get to spend our time making the game really fun, instead of spending the whole project getting the thing working. It’s not magic, but I got to cut corners - we freed up a lot of programmer time to work on the game rather than the infrastructure.” But what about the future, what about more sophisticated implementations than a multiplayer first-person shooter taking in confined arenas? We talk about the prospect of massively multiplayer, procedurally generated online worlds; the sorts of things Microsoft hyped during the early days of the Xbox One promotional drive. You can have the server hold an emergent persistent world, save your state and reload it and keep going from there. With Titanfall, a multiplayer-only title, it sort of makes sense that lots of the computing is done on remote servers, but what happens when single-player adventures start offloading tasks to the cloud? Of course, the concept of ’owning’ movies, music and games has become more complex since the dawn of digital distribution, but as more of the control cedes to the corporations and service providers, darker questions are raised. For now though, many developers like Shiring are excited by the potential of this new technological generation – and it is hard not to be similarly enthused while talking to them. “Everyone is free to make whatever they want now - there aren’t really any massive constraints left,” he says at one point. As this is a multiplayer-only title, the Guardian will not run a review until the game has been tested on public servers. 