Source :http://www.thesixthaxis.com/2014/03/10/news-snatch-titanfall-special-release-times-resolutions-and-rankings/
Content :The Titanfall hype train is running at full speed today and for good reason. “It’s hard to understate how incredibly important Titanfall is for Xbox,” said Yusuf Mehdi, chief marketing and strategy officer for devices and studios at Microsoft. I’ve put together a special titanic sized Snatch with all the news for the game, be it good, bad or “what the hell?” The game has found its way in the hands of some players earlier than expected and that may have given them an unfair advantage. MP1st reports that some gamers have already ranked up to 2nd generation in the game, the equivalent of a Prestige in Call of Duty. However, those who have got a copy early face a ban on TwitchTV if they stream before launch. Anyone who broadcasts Titanfall before 12:01am EST tonight without “express written permission” from Respawn faces a “DMCA [Digital Millennium Copyright Act] suspension”. The multi-player campaign in the game allegedly rather short and lasts a couple of hours. It’s about looking where people spend most of their time,” explained Respawn.“Generally people will burn through a single-player campaign as fast as they can … For us, it was about pushing the boundaries of what multiplayer is. Let’s take all that great single-player stuff and build up the world. That world that you’re going to spend a hundred hours in should be the most full-featured.” For classic arcade games such as Asteroids and Centipede, now with added Titan, click here . The intro to the game has leaked out and is rather odd and reminds me a little of the Star Trek Enterprise title sequence. “Titanfall will help propel the idea of high-definition gaming,” – Patrick Soderlund, the executive vice president of EA Studios at Electronic Arts. You may recall earlier reports of the Titanfall beta playing at 792p with Respawn saying they were aiming for 900p on release. A user on Reddit has compared screens from the beta with the release code and found that the final resolution for the game is still 792p. Based on some careful pixel counting (measuring the amount of aliasing artifacts on flat edges), I’ve concluded that the Xbox One version of Titanfall is not rendering at an enhanced resolution relative to the beta. The One version of Titanfall still renders at 792p. Another site, Beyond3D, has also suggested the game is still running at 792p. UPDATE: Respawn lead engineer Richard Baker has confirmed that the game does indeed run at 792p but the resolution may increase after launch with a patch. “We’re going to experiment. The target is either 1080p non-anti-aliased or 900p with FXAA. We’re trying to optimise… we don’t want to give up anything for higher res,” said Richard “So far we’re not 100 per cent happy with any of the options, we’re still working on it. For day one it’s not going to change. We’re still looking at it for post-day one. We’re likely to increase resolution after we ship.” “A lot of the performance is on the GPU side. There’s still room for optimisation and we’re still working on it,” Baker added. “Ideally it would have been a rock-solid 60 all the time when we shipped but obviously when there’s big fights going on, lots of particle effects, lots of physics objects… we’re still working to condense the systems, make them more parallel so we can hit 60 all the time, ideally.” Vince Zampella has also confirmed the PC version does not run at 60FPS unless V-Sync in enabled, which can result in screen-tearing and lag. Sticking with Vince, that ‘Future of Titanfall’ announcement that Microsoft were crowing about? It is probably related to this – http://yourtitanisready.com . Respawn have teamed up with visual effects studio Playfight “to bring you original content set within the vast expanse of the Titanfall universe.” “Titanfall is set in a rich near future universe with visceral, epic battles with Pilots and their Titan companions,” explained Dusty Welch from Respawn. “We wanted to partner with Playfight, who has a history of delivering movies that meld gameplay, live action and stellar CG into truly entertaining media, for Titanfall. What this collaboration brings is yet to unfold…” Good news for our Antipodean chums, it looks like they will be getting dedicated local servers, Vince Zampella tweeting “We’ll have good news soon for aussies”. Bizarre Titanfall News of the Day: If you go to the Gamestop website in the United States, and browse products and then sort them by bestselling , Titanfall is being outsold by.. the PlayStation 4 camera. Official Xbox Magazine has published the times you will be able to download the digital version of the game. United States: 3/11/14 – 12:00 AM PDT Canada: 3/11/14 – 12:00 AM PDT Mexico: 3/11/14 – 12:00 AM PST Brazil: 3/11/14 – 4:00 AM BRT Austria: 3/13/14 – 12:00 AM CET France: 3/13/14 – 12:00 AM CET Germany: 3/13/14 – 12:00 AM CET Ireland: 3/14/14 – 12:00 AM GMT Italy: 3/13/14 – 12:00 AM CET Spain: 3/13/14 – 12:00 AM CET United Kingdom: 3/14/14 – 12:00 AM GMT Australia: 3/13/14 – 12:00 AM AEDT New Zealand: 3/14/14 – 12:00 AM NZDT 34 gig of your 50gb PC install of Titanfall is uncompressed audio and includes English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Traditional Chinese audio packs. 