Source :http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2577447/Metro-North-worker-dies-hit-train-working-tracks-East-Harlem.html
Content :The employee was struck by the Hudson line train en-route to Poughkeepsie just before 1 a.m. Worker was on the tracks at Park Avenue and East 106th Street in East Harlem Man was rushed to Mount Sinai Hospital where he was later pronounced dead Published:
14:32 BST, 10 March 2014
|
Updated:
14:52 BST, 10 March 2014 New York's Metro-North Railroad says one of its employees was struck and killed by a train while working on tracks in Manhattan. The nation's second-busiest railroad says it happened at 12:54 a.m. Monday at Park Avenue and East 106th Street. The employee was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. His identity wasn't released. Dead: A Metro-North employee was struck and killed by a train in Manhattan while doing work on the tracks Monday morning, MTA officials confirmed About 50 passengers were aboard the train, the 12:47 a.m. from Grand Central Terminal bound for Poughkeepsie. Service was suspended while emergency crews worked, and the 50 passengers on the train that hit the worker were transferred to another train resuming their trip at 2:17 a.m. The death is being investigated by Metro-North and MTA police. Service was restored before the morning rush. Timeline: The Hudson Line train departed Grand Central Terminal at 12:47 a.m. en route to Poughkeepsie. Approximately 50 passengers on the train were safely moved to another train and resumed their trip at 2:17 a.m. Metro-North serves 281,000 riders a day in New York and Connecticut. It has experienced a spate of problems in the last year, including a derailment in the Bronx that killed four passengers and injured 71. Last May, a derailment in Bridgeport, Connecticut, injured 76. In the same month, track foreman Robert Luden, 52,
was killed in Connecticut after a student rail controller put the track
where Luden was working back into service without approval. Last nights death comes after Metro-North's new president, Joseph Giulietti, vowed to improve safety on the 31-year-old railroad. Is Venezuelan version of Genoa bridge also a death trap?... Is this Britain's most expensive SECOND home? Woman buyer... Furious customers threaten to attack restaurant owner and... Police release horrifying video of pervert sexually... The take down: Baby giraffe is killed by merciless pride... Fears for missing schoolgirl, 13, after she failed to... Mother, 27, slams Poundland for selling 'sexist'... Ministers will unveil 'no deal' Brexit plans NEXT WEEK... From smashed avo and tree planting to a gruesome samurai... Shocking moment two female shoppers fight in a duty free... Stunned teacher discovers burglar who carried out £7,000... Fitness model, 31, who broke the nose of a drunken City... Heartwarming moment soldier dad surprises his tearful son... Muslim couple are denied Swiss citizenship because they... Gardener, 82, killed himself two weeks after receiving... Owner saves his puppy from drowning in his hot tub in... Corbynistas hurl mocking abuse at Jewish Labour MP Dame... Police battle to save teenager left fighting for his life... 