Source :http://www.pcgamer.com/2014/03/10/titanfall-review-in-progress/
Content :The version I played was final, and I've seen the entirety of the campaign as both factions as well as every mode, map, and weapon - but until we know for sure that EA's servers are capable of handling the stress of launch, the game doesn't get PC Gamer's endorsement. This is a bombastic, big money multiplayer shooter where robots fall from space; where jetpack-equipped 'pilots' dash over, alongside and through sci-fi cityscapes; where AI-controlled minions are shot, trampled, kicked and blown up by the squadload. It's a game where you'll run up a wall, jet into the air, lock onto a platoon of grunts with your smart pistol and eliminate them all as you land. This restricted player count caused internet uproar when it was announced, but is the foundation for all of Titanfall's other successes. Titanfall's other features provide plenty of strategic options - and I'll get to them shortly - but keeping the scope of the game manageable means that you always have the opportunity to use them. Whenever I found my mind drifting during an extended Titanfall session, it didn't take long to realise that I was the hindering factor, not the game. We're playing on Boneyard, a winding series of desert canyons where small military bunkers are linked by ziplines. I fling myself off, grab a zipline, and gain more speed: then I'm across a rooftop, through a short passageway, and up off the top of a defensive tower to ensure that I come down on the enemy base from above. As I dash toward the enemy flag I throw a grenade ahead of me, clearing the stand of mines and satchel charges - a habit I picked up in Tribes. The moment I touch the flag, I'm highlighted on the HUD of every player on the map: I become a target, immediately, for those three titans waiting outside. There are NPC soldiers in the enemy base, and each one felled cuts a few seconds off my titanfall timer. I stop, crouch, and kill a few more with my carbine before rushing towards the precipitous drop to the desert floor. Then, in the midst of the chaos, I'm away, thundering across the desert towards our base, carrying the enemy flag towards the line of friendly titans that stride out to meet me. This series of moments is useful because it highlights how Titanfall's best qualities come from lots of individually well-designed parts operating together. As a footsoldier you always have access to a broad range of movement abilities that turn you into a cross between TF2's Scout and Tribes: Ascend's Pathfinder. You can double jump, zipline and wallrun at will, and with a bit of time you start to learn how these can be used in tandem. In the same way that a good Tribes player learns to see each hill as component parts of a longer route, so do Titanfall's cities eventually start to look like inviting, freeform obstacle courses. You might be a sniper who uses freerunning and a cloaking device to escape when your vantage point is discovered, or a close-quarters brawler who uses stims for a speed and health boost between firefights. You might spec for covert ops but swap out the cloaking device for a special vision mode that lets you see enemies as glowing skeletons through walls. In each case you'll also be making decisions about whether to hunt other players exclusively or stop to kill the platoons of NPC minions that spawn throughout each match. At first, the presence of AI cannon fodder seems like a way of counterbalancing the reduced player count, but they actually function like creeps in Dota or League of Legends. 'Farming' is a legitimate strategy, and some teams may choose to equip one player with a minion-slaughtering smart pistol so that they can be the first to bring a titan into play. Placed on auto, a sturdy Ogre could hold a capture point against opportunistic cappers in Domination mode. Alternatively, an auto-titan using the mid-range Atlas chassis and equipped with shields could be lead through the streets to open the enemy to a flanking assault by on-foot pilots. You might prefer to take charge yourself, nipping at the enemy in a nimble Stryder chassis equipped with hit-and-run quad rockets and electric smoke. You learn to combine game features in new and exciting ways, and are forced to adapt on the fly to new maps and rulesets. One map, set in a prison, links open courtyards with sweeping internal roadways at multiple levels of elevation, giving titans rare access to the game's vertical dimension. Another, a smuggling outpost, mixes complicated nests of buildings with a wide-open bay area where titans can spar with each other in waist-deep water. Interiors are littered with detritus - bookshelves, upended tables, pots and pans, scattered papers - that make them look as if they have been abandoned in a hurry. Each map has a distinct palette, and there's a level of design skill evident in their buildings and backdrops that creates a feeling of occupying a piece of well-constructed, if familiar, sci-fi concept art. Two maps stand out as exceptions to this rule - one is a symmetrical and relatively featureless training ground, and the other is a partially-buried desert bunker that would look more at home in a Halo game. Texture quality and character detail both fall below modern standards when viewed up close, but they are compensated by unfaltering 60 frames per second performance at 1080p and phenomenal animation. The vast majority of your time with the game is spent in traditional multiplayer, which is divided into five modes. Each player spawns inside their custom mech, and whichever team is able to destroy all of the enemy's titans is the winner. Dying knocks you out for the entire round, but if you're able to eject from your doomed titan then you can keep fighting on foot. This turns Titanfall into a class-based vehicle game of sorts, where interactions between titan abilities become more important than they are in other modes. Capture The Flag is included without many changes to the formula, but feels considerably revitalised by Titanfall's new ideas. It's fine on paper, but in practice it's the only mode where you're really conscious of the fact that there are only six players on the enemy team. You are likely to play it first, in reality, but I'm discussing it last because its qualities are grounded in exactly the same things that make regular Titanfall multiplayer enjoyable. It is, functionally, a narrative strung out across nine multiplayer missions that alternate between Hardpoint Domination and Attrition mode. Beyond narrative context provided by introductory intro and outro sequences, these missions play much like any other match. The scale of some of these introductory sequences is impressive - one team might land in dropships while other receives a briefing underground, or warp in from a space battle in orbit, or crashland and have to storm into the map proper via a beachhead offensive. Certain lines of dialogue change depending on whether teams win or lose each match, but the overall arc of the plot doesn't alter at all. Winning a battle only to find out that your side lost for the sake of the plot is a massive waste of potential. Fully-realised, Titanfall's new ideas about shooter storytelling could have made it a classic and injected much-needed life into a tired genre. If Titanfall - or something like it - had been released fifteen years ago, I suspect we'd be talking about it today in the same hushed tones reserved for Tribes 2 and Team Fortress Classic. The notion of the shooter as a MMOish 'service' manifests in ugly ways: the lack of LAN or offline support of any kind, the high price tag, the inevitable season pass. You can form a party with your friends and queue for games, but you can't create your own private lobbies or dedicated servers. It is clearly the work of sharp, analytical designers, and it deserves to penetrate the thick layer of cynicism that traditionally surrounds big budget shooters of this type. If you choose to invest in Titanfall, make it your mission to track down the stories that emerge when all of its systems come together and sing. 