Source :http://blogs.barrons.com/emergingmarketsdaily/2014/03/10/even-adjusting-for-anomalies-chinas-exports-slowed/
Content :By
March 10, 2014 12:19 p.m. ET China 's February exports contracted sharply by 18% from a year before, much weaker than the 7.5% increase expected by Bloomberg. Financial markets did not read this kindly, sending the Hong Kong Hang Seng Index down 1.7%. The Shanghai Composite Stock Market Index slumped 2.9%. Taken together, both pieces of data were distorted by the timing of the Lunar Chinese New Year , which occurred early in January this year. Therefore, analyst urge us to combine the two months of data and read them as one data point. Combined, January and February's exports declined by 2% y/y. But China has another distortion. This time last year, the exports data were artificially inflated by hot money inflow in the disguise of "exports". This year, the hot money flow is a lot smaller, as evidenced by a 21% year-on-year drop in exports to Hong Kong , where such fake cross-border trades are often initiated. Adjusting for all the data anomalies, UBS estimates the true growth rate was about 5% in dollar terms. Comparing to December's 7.5% adjusted growth reading, the new data, without down, is a signal that China's exports sector has slowed. UBS urges us to be patient and wait for the March data to come out, but the market is never patient. This morning, the iShares China Large Cap ETF (FXI) is down 2%, so is the iShares MSCI China ETF (MCHI). The weak export data this year is not unique to China. The other Asian export powerhouses - South Korea and Taiwan - saw a similar slowdown. In Taiwan, for instance, by combining the January and February data together, export growth moderated to 0.4% from 1.8% in the fourth-quarter of 2013. UBS analysts Tao Wang, Donna Kwok, Harrison Hu and Ning Zhang offered an explanation - bad weather: The softening of China's export growth since late 2013 is consistent with recent developments in both Korea and Taiwan's export sector. Both economies saw a modest export moderation in January-February. Possible reasons for this include weaker US activity weighed down by unusually bad weather conditions (e.g., ISM manufacturing index dipped from 56.5 last December to an average of 52.3 in January-February) and slightly cooler growth momentum in Europe (e.g., Germany's IFO expectations index edged down in February). Energy ADRs are down this morning. CNOOC (CEO) lost 3%, PetroChina (PTR) is down 2.5% and Sinopec (SNP) is off 2.5%. 