Source :http://www.polygon.com/2014/3/10/5467906/titanfall-review
Content :Game Info
Platform 360, Win, Xbox One Publisher Electronic Arts Developer Respawn Entertainment Release Date Mar 11, 2014 After changing multiplayer gaming forever with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare in 2007, developer Infinity Ward partially imploded with bad blood enough to go around. In the ensuing years, multiplayer shooters have become predictable exercises in minor updates and more graphical polish. Taking a page from the playbook it created with Modern Warfare , Respawn has taken elements of action games, the online battle arena genre and more, expertly threading them through a shooter base that stands toe-to-toe with the heaviest hitters around. (Note: This review involved a two-day review event hosted by Microsoft and EA, playing on Xbox One consoles and "retail servers" on March 3 and 4, as well as time spent playing "retail" downloadable copies prior to launch by multiple Polygon editors. The premise of Titanfall goes something like this: on the future frontiers of human-occupied space, a revolution's worth of angry colonists has had it with their corporate-funded government. In the resulting struggle, both sides fight using Titans: industrial, weaponized armor that sit in a happy medium somewhere between an Abrams tank and the robotic stars of anime like Macross or Gundam. Eschewing solo play, Respawn deeply hooks this narrative premise into a sophisticated multiplayer shooter. Pilots can double jump thanks to a jet pack, and also run along walls, vault over obstacles, hang off ledges and even fly across the map on well-placed ziplines. Choosing Campaign mode assigns you a side — either IMC or Militia — and locks you to it as you play through a predetermined sequence of nine multiplayer maps. These unfold a little differently than "Classic" multiplayer, with extended audio briefings before each mission starts and a more involved cinematic drop sequence. You'll also get more urgent video briefings during matches from NPC characters based on your progress toward your specific mission objectives. But in comparison to more dedicated single-player experiences offered elsewhere, Titanfall never quite drives its narrative or characters home. This radically shifts the way that Titanfall's combat unfolds relative to the first-person shooter establishment. Most other multiplayer shooters exist as a flat plane with a few specific points of altitude. Your Titan is being built on a command ship as you play, a process that can be sped up by completing objectives. They're fast, powerful weapon platforms that offer a different set of considerations than Pilots. This preserves the delicate balance of power that Titanfall maintains between Pilots and their giant, armored counterparts. Titans are also the only units that can't access every area — their size effectively locks them out of many spaces. Every map feels distinct and provides unique twists on the relationship between Titans and Pilots. Respawn has found a remarkable sense of equilibrium predicated on a constantly shifting set of strengths and weaknesses. After dozens of hours of Titanfall , leaping on the back of an enemy Titan to perfom a hostile brain surgery is still a thrill. As soon as I gave up trying to find my perfect loadout, I started exploring the tools offered and enjoying the switch-ups. It helps that each weapon feels distinctive and suited to a certain kind of play, rather than the endless onslaught of decimal-point differences that define the armories of other shooters. There's only one shotgun — with four different one-at-a-time modifications, mind — and it acts admirably as a video game cannon. It blasts wide and hard and is incredibly fun to use up close, making close-quarters combat satisfying. Titan weaponry is even more distinctive and situational, though I'll confess, once I found the arc cannon I never left it. Titanfall's controls are responsive and weapons feel great, but it doesn't rely heavily on twitchy kill-shot focused dynamics in combat. Positioning and angles of attack are just as important, which leaves the door open for less physically skilled players to have a shot. Other smart touches rooted in the game's fiction help in practical ways. This seemingly minor addition allows for less experienced players or those living without requisite Titan skills to still have fun with Titanfall's biggest payoff. Respawn uses Titanfall's unique setup to add some twists to established multiplayer modes. Attrition is the equivalent of Team Deathmatch, with a catch: enemy grunts and spectres also count toward the point total necessary to score a win. Hardpoint Domination is all about capturing and holding points, and kills count to earn Titans faster. There's also Capture the Flag, which is pretty traditional, save for the new dynamics provided by Titanfall's additional mechanics. But the Smart Pistol doesn't represent a "win button" — like the auto-Titan modes, it's a way in for those who aren't devastatingly talented or blessed with all the time in the world to master first-person shooters. The enemy AI provide multiple benefits; they're a resource for skilled players to farm for more experience and faster access to Titan drops and special abilities. Beginners can also take out grunts and spectres to help their team out, and almost as important, Respawn uses them to give clues to your environment. Grunts call out the presence of enemy Pilots and shoot at them as well, making them an excellent early warning system. Matches are full of chances to do something cool So much of the game's initial appeal depends on the collection of those kinds of small details that make up its presentation. You slide underneath and crawl in, or maybe you're like me, taking a running jump so it can snatch you out of the air to tuck you into its belly. These touches, these elements of presentation and experience that are more traditionally rooted in single-player titles lead to a game that's exciting to watch unfold and, honestly, this takes some of the edge off of the moments where you'll inevitably get killed. Call me crazy, but I didn't mind dying so much when an Ogre-class Titan ripped my Atlas's arms off and beat me to the ground with them. There's a willingness here to borrow elements from other game genres, to take a less traditional route. Modern Warfare lifted role-playing games and MMOs for its addictive character persistence online — which returns for Titanfall , along with the seemingly endless challenges also introduced by Respawn in their former lives. Titanfall also appropriates from non-shooter multiplayer games like DOTA and League of Legends with its fodder enemies. Along with its integration of elements more common to single-player campaigns, it leads to an experience that feels distinct and separate. Titanfall sits at 60 frames per second most of the time, but when three or four Titans are on the screen at once, firing rockets and arc blasts, things take a dive. For starters, Titanfall is begging for a spectator mode and more complex broadcasting options that have appeared in games like the Battlefield series. I don't need potleaf emblems, and I appreciate that the more immature bro trappings that have come to pepper the Call of Duty series are absent. 