Source :http://www.kiplinger.com/slideshow/investing/T052-S003-the-10-best-stocks-of-the-bull-market/
Content :Because in the late winter of 2009, the fear gripping the stock market was so intense that even shares of many big-name companies were selling for a few dollars, or sometimes just pennies. Investors who had the guts to jump in at that point wound up with massive gains, provided they held on. So we asked Morningstar to cull its universe for the ten best performers, measured by total return, from March 9, 2009, through February 21, 2014. Apart from the banks, few stock crashes in 2007 and 2008 were more dramatic than what befell casino titan Las Vegas Sands ( LVS ). As financial markets seized up and the global economy shuddered, the company's shares plummeted from $144 to a low of $1.28, a wipeout of 99%. What's more, Sheldon Adelson, the 80-year-old head of Las Vegas Sands, was pushing ahead in 2008 with a $5.7-billion casino resort in Singapore. But as usual with the feisty Adelson, luck was on his side — and with anyone who took a chance on the stock when it traded in penny-stock territory. The company made it through the financial crisis intact, then came roaring back as the global economy steadied. But as Steven Wieczynski, an analyst at Stifel Financial writes, if the shares appear "priced for perfection, we would counter that recent quarterly results have been just that, and then some." Bottom line: Adelson takes big risks, but the payoffs have been enormous — though not yet for people who chased the stock at its 2007 peak. Atlas Energy ( ATLS ) is a publicly traded master limited partnership that was dumped mercilessly in the commodity bust of 2008. Atlas Energy CEO Edward Cohen called 2013 a good year and says he expects 2014 to be "even better." Bottom line: An income-generating domestic energy play, but you should discuss MLPs with your tax adviser before investing. But the threat to American Axle’s survival turned out to be very real: After its main customer and former parent, General Motors, filed for bankruptcy protection in June 2009, American Axle teetered on the brink — only to be rescued by GM, which provided a $110-million capital infusion in September 2009. American Axle returned to profitability in the third quarter of 2009, and its shares, which had sunk to a mere 29 cents at the bottom of the bear market, boomeranged back above $10 by early 2010. With the auto industry's continued recovery, the Detroit company's global sales of axles, transmission parts and other driveline components hit $3.2 billion last year, more than double 2009 levels. But what Wall Street seems to like most is that American Axle is further weaning itself from its dependence on GM, which spun out the business in 1994. And the company continues to expand rapidly in key foreign markets, including Brazil, China and India. A new wave of dot-com stocks has captivated Wall Street over the past year, yet few can match the recent performance of CalAmp ( CAMP ), a little-known, 33-year-old maker of telecom equipment. The Oxnard, Cal., company has been riding a surge in demand for wireless-telecom applications, such as improved package-delivery monitoring, "M2M" (machine-to-machine) systems that control the movement of trains, and emergency-response coordination by government units. The shares also briefly spiked in the late 1990s and again at the tech zenith in the early 2000s, topping $40 both times — only to crash. FBR Capital Markets analyst Scott Thompson thinks CalAmp's wireless-growth prospects remain outstanding, with one caveat: If bigger players were to barrel into its markets, they could drive down product prices and potentially wreck CalAmp’s profitability, he says. Bottom line: Great little niche growth company, but high risk at these valuations. When Perry Sook founded Nexstar Broadcasting ( NXST ) in 1996, his goal was to build a big portfolio of TV stations in midsize markets across the U.S. — places such as Salt Lake City; Scranton, Pa.; and Lubbock, Tex. One key to Nexstar's success has been the lucrative retransmission fees that cable companies pay to carry local TV stations. And while media empires often stress the value of their assets as an investor lure, Nexstar is offering cash back, too: The company in January announced a 25% boost in its quarterly dividend, to 15 cents a share. Bottom line: A great collection of valuable local broadcast outlets to buy on any pullback. That accounted for most of the advance that propelled Dana to the number-five spot on our bull market winners' list. Weaker North American sales of big trucks and other heavy equipment trimmed demand for the axles, steering shafts and other driveline components that Dana supplies, and depreciating currencies hurt results in foreign markets, including South America. The financial collapse of General Motors and Chrysler in 2009 caused investors to toss almost everything connected to the auto business onto the same junk heap. But like many companies ravaged by the 2007-09 recession, Avis quickly hacked expenses to deal with shrinking revenue. That's a side effect of the massive industry consolidation over the past decade that left the Big Three rental firms — Enterprise, Hertz and Avis — with a stunning 95% of the market. Bottom line: Still feels like a long-term bargain, assuming the now-concentrated industry maintains its pricing power. One was home-furnishings retailer Pier 1 Imports ( PIR ), which traded for a mere 15 cents at the market bottom. The Fort Worth, Tex., company already was in trouble heading into the Great Recession, as revenue began to slide in 2005 and losses mounted. But Pier 1 CEO Alex Smith, who arrived in 2007, saw a way back from the brink: Slash payroll costs, close marginal stores, eliminate debt and refocus on finding one-of-a-kind merchandise. Results have continued to improve: In the nine months that ended November 30, sales were up 9%, to $1.26 billion, from the same period a year earlier, and operating profit rose 7%, to $105.4 million. Analyst Joan Storms, of Wedbush Securities, advises buying the shares on this weakness. She thinks Pier 1 is capable of 15% annual earnings growth over the next few years, helped by an aggressive new online-shopping push. The catalyst: optimism about the New York City firm's new drug, Zerenex, a treatment for side effects of chronic kidney disease. Some investors worry that Keryx hasn't announced a partnering deal with a major U.S. operator of dialysis centers. The fear is that the company may lack the resources to launch Zerenex alone and to go up against competing treatments already on the market. Keryx in January raised $90 million by issuing more stock, but that further diluted the stakes of existing shareholders. He expects the company to attract a new round of positive attention when detailed Japanese studies of Zerenex are published, possibly soon. Biotechnology has been one of the hottest sectors for the past two years, and no stock shows that better than Pharmacyclics ( PCYC ), which takes the crown as the biggest winner of the five-year-old bull market. A $1,000 investment in the Sunnyvale, Cal., company's shares at the market’s bottom in March 2009 is worth a stunning $177,557 today. The buzz began to build in 2011 for Pharmacyclics's drug Imbruvica, a new treatment for blood cancers such as leukemia. Last November, the two firms got Food and Drug Administration approval to start selling Imbruvica for a rare blood cancer. But as the past year has shown, a major challenge for long-term believers in Pharmacyclics is dealing with wild short-term trading in the stock. Bottom line: Likely to stay a hot stock, but suitable for big risk takers only. 