Source :http://www.finfacts.ie/irishfinancenews/article_1027399.shtml
Content :Last Updated:
Mar 12, 2014 - 2:22 PMMarkets: Ireland's Fyffes to merge with Chiquita of original 'Banana Republic' fame
By Michael Hennigan, Finfacts founder and editor
Mar 10, 2014 - 3:36 PM Email this articlePrinter friendly page Source: http://www.guidetobelize.info/de/reisen/belize-zug-eisenbahn-guide.shtmlChiquita Brands International of the US and Fyffes
of Ireland said today they
have agreed to combine in an all-stock transaction valued at about $1.07bn, that
will be the world’s largest banana company. Chiquita shareholders would own 50.7% of the new company, ChiquitaFyffes, which
would have $4.6bn in annual revenue and 32,000 employees globally, Fyffes said. He
outbid two other conglomerates, Zapata Corporation and Textron, for a
controlling interest in the company. In fact, that is a condensed version of
what has actually happened to United Fruit Co., famed in the U.S. for Chiquita
bananas, but known to generations of Latin Americans as "el Pulpo" (the
Octopus). Since the term was coined, the word has grown to be applied to any country
with unstable, non-democratic governments, and abundant foreign influence,
especially in economics. The many countries in Latin America that were dominated
by United Fruit Company (UFCo) in the first half of the 20th century certainly
fit that definition. The New York Times wrote in 2008: [Today, “the banana is the world’s fourth major food,
after rice, wheat and milk.” But when a Brooklyn-born twentysomething named
Minor Keith planted a few banana cuttings next to a railroad track in Costa Rica
in the early 1870s, it was virtually unknown outside its native environs. Keith
and his partners soon realized how great the potential profits were — especially
if, along with growing bananas, they could control railroads, shipping and
Central American governments (to that end, Keith married the beautiful daughter
of a Costa Rican president). Fyffes Announces merger with Chiquita, FY13 numbers in-line: Patrick Higgins
of Goodbody comments - - "Fyffes announced this morning that it will combine
with Chiquita in a stock for stock transaction. The group will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
domiciled in Ireland. The merger will create the largest player globally, with c.14% market
share. Fyffes
management will have governance of the new entity also, with David McCann to be appointed
the new CEO, Tom Murphy the new CFO and Coen Boss the new COO. Fyffes reported FY13 results this morning with EPS in-line with our forecasts
at 8.8c, +3.1% yoy. Sales came in at €839m, +7% , while adjusted EBITA was €32.7m (vs Goodbody
€31.9m), at the top end of the guidance range of €29-€34m. Banana sales were up in the year as the group continued to grow volumes; however
profits were down slightly due primarily to higher fruit costs. Pricing was weak in H1
although a significant pick up occurred during the summer months due a tightening of
supply. Overall pricing increased but insufficiently to offset the continuing rise in fruit
costs. Melons, which is predominantly H1 weighted, performed strongly as the group
continues to grow its market share in the key import season in the US. Profits in Fyffes
pineapple business rose strongly benefitting from an improvement in market conditions and
stability in supply volumes, particularly in H1. As a result and given the potential for volatility in the core
banana business over the course of the year, management has set a wide initial guidance
range for adjusted EBITA of €30-35m (vs. Goodbody forecasts for €33.7m). Speaking today, John Corrigan, NTMA chief executive said: “The resumption
of scheduled bond auctions builds on the phased re-entry to the capital markets
achieved by the NTMA over the past two years and marks the full normalisation of
Ireland’s presence in the markets.” EPS came in at 4.8c versus our 5.6c forecast with a higher interest and tax charges
the key differences. The
statement notes that the yoy performance was impacted by the fact that the group received
licence revenue from Malaysia in the prior year but this was somewhat offset by the extension of
the number of licences in the Saudi Post contract and ongoing payments received from USPS. In addition, this revenue was held back by the delay of the USPS licence fee in
2013. Maintenance
revenue was $5.4m, +6% yoy, driven by the full year impact of customers signed in 2012. In terms of services revenue, it was +35% yoy to $11.6m, versus our $10.3m
forecast, driven by the group's work with the USPS and the Malaysian post office. Within Escher Interactive Services (digital mail
and mobile wallet solutions), it notes that the pipeline of opportunities has expanded
significantly over the last 12 months and Escher remains confident about the prospects for 2014. It is encouraging to see the group note
the pipeline of potential deals for both of its divisions. Banks: SME survey indicates uptick in loan refusal rate;
Eamonn Hughes and
Colm Foley comment - - "The latest Quarterly Bank Watch Survey at the end of
February by ISME, the small and medium sized enterprises association, has shown that refusal rates by banks to
lend to small businesses rose by 4 points to 54%. The quick reversal in the refusal rate is surprising and something we’ll need
to monitor, but ongoing evidence of an improving economy highlights that, on balance, conditions for the SME sector should be showing some signs of improvement. Economic View: GDP data likely to confirm investment-led recovery; Dermot
O'Leary of Goodbody comments - - "Positive momentum in the Irish economy is
expected to be confirmed by this week’s Q4 2013 GDP data. A key feature of recent quarters, and indeed of our forecasts for the
coming years, is that a rebound in investment is leading recovery in domestic demand. However, the “patent cliff” in the pharmaceutical sector
has played a significant role in depressing GDP growth over that period; we estimate 1.0% to
1.5%. In Q3 2013, domestic demand,
excluding the volatile aircraft component, grew by 1.6%, its fastest rate of growth since
2007. Within this, investment grew by 8% yoy, with contributions from both business machinery and
equipment and construction. Surveys over recent months suggest that trends in
the former continued, while momentum in the construction sector has also been maintained
(confirmed by this morning’s PMI). After falling for the first three quarters of the year,
we expect consumer spending to make a small contribution to growth in Q4. News on this front has been slightly disappointing of late, owing to very low
inflationary pressures. Irish and European industry continues to recover in 2014: Conall Mac Coille
of Davy comments - - "European stock indices fell on Friday: the Euro Stoxx 50
fell 1.6% and the S&P500 rose 0.1%. On-going tensions over Crimea held back risk
appetite despite better-than- expected US non-farm payrolls at 175,000. The euro rose to a
fresh high against the dollar, breaking through $1.39 in early trade, as
investors weighed the ECB’s decision to keep rates on hold. Given the
strength of euro area manufacturing PMI surveys (53.2 in February) and the hard
data on output, the consensus forecast for just 1.9% euro area industrial
production growth in 2014 looks overly pessimistic. In this context, Friday’s industrial production data for Ireland provided
further evidence that the sector is benefitting from the improving cycle in
Europe. Irish industrial production fell by 1.1% in the year to January but was
split between a 5.3% fall in the modern sector and a 7.8% rise in traditional
manufacturing. However, pharmaceutical
companies employ just 40,000 and have responded to the patent cliff by
increasing investment in plant and R&D to bring the next generation of drugs to
market. This provides further evidence that the
rebound in Irish consumer and business confidence has led households and
companies to increase their spending. Indeed, the surge in Irish consumer
confidence through H2 2013 was accompanied by a pick-up in surveys on
households’ intentions to spend on big ticket items such as cars." China reported on Saturday a
plunge in exports in February but it wasn't a typical month because of the Lunar
New Year holidays. Japan's Nikkei 225 fell
1.01%; China's Shanghai Composite dropped 2.86%; South Korea's KOSPI slid 1.03%;
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 slipped 0.93% and in Mumbai, the Bombay Stock Exchange
the S&P BSE India Sensex Index climbed 0.07%. Check
out our subscription service, Finfacts
Premium ,
at a low annual charge of €25 