Source :http://www.fxempire.com/news/commodities-news/weak-data-from-japan-and-china-pressures-crude-oil/
Content :Mortgage rates eased back in the week ending 16th August, with mortgage rates on the decline amidst heightened market volatility and rising geo-political risk in recent weeks, according to figures released by Freddie Mac.Freddie Mac also noted that, in spite of a steadying in mortgage rates through the summer, home Read More The major U.S. equity market finished mixed for the week while posting a generally choppy trade. Concerns over financial and currency turmoil in Turkey, renewed trade talks between the United States and China, and strong earnings reports were primarily responsible for the two-sided trade and heightened volatility.For the week, the Earlier in the Day:Economic data released through the Asian session this morning was limited to New Zealand wholesale inflation figures for the 2nd quarter, leaving the markets to consider what lies ahead as China and Canada prepare to return to the negotiating table to discuss trade terms with the U.S, Read More Bitcoin gained 4.06% on Friday, following on from Thursday’s 0.71% rise, to end the day at $6,571.2.The moves through the day left Bitcoin up 4.08% for the week, Monday through Friday, with Friday’s broad based cryptomarket rally seeing Bitcoin trail a number of the majors on the day.A day long Read More World Soccer Coin is launching its highly anticipated Ronaldinho Soccer Coin (RSC) Crowdsale. It will begin on August 16. The Whitelist has been opened to the public on August 1st. https://tokensale.soccercoin.eu/RSC is a revolutionary blockchain business model that captures multiple unique business areas, and profitable revenue streams within its leading-edge Read More According to recent estimates, more than 1.2 billion (roughly 1 in 6) people currently do not have access to clean drinking water. Throughout the course of the year, at least 2.8 billion people will experience water shortages to some degree. If a future global water crisis is something that we As U.S mid-term elections approach, the U.S President has been a particularly busy one by historical standards. The trade war with China, an apparent denuclearization agreement with North Korea, an about turn on relations with Russia, trade renegotiations with the EU, ongoing talks with Mexico and Canada and fresh sanctions It’s been a torrid time for a number of emerging economies, as the U.S President goes down his list of must-dos and, while the early days of the U.S Presidency saw North Korea, Iran, and China grab most of the headlines, Turkey has not been left unscathed.The threat of U.S China, Iran Russia, and Turkey are under PressureThe threat of sanctions and tariffs from the United States puts pressure on a large part of developing markets. Chinese bourses are under pressure because of the threat of tariff wars. Iran is under threat of imposing sanctions because of the Iranian nuclear programme. At the turn of the 20th Century, Argentina’s rapidly developing economy had effectively established itself as one of the most prosperous economies in the entire world. With access to a diverse array of natural resources, relatively little exposure to the international conflicts of the era, and a well-educated workforce, many The figure which is nearly five times the amount of money lost through the entire last year takes into consideration reported stolen funds tied to cryptocurrencies. The figure could have been much higher had it taken into account market transactions in the dark web involving cryptocurrencies.Cryptocurrency's Skyrocketing Money Laundering ProblemCipherTrace Sydney, Australia. 13th August 2018: FP Markets, an ASIC-regulated global CFD and Forex broker with over 13 years in the industry, enhances its clients’ user experience with the launch of its bespoke secure client portal. In addition, it has added the multi-asset platform, Metatrader 5 (MT5), to its wide-ranging offering Read More 