Source :http://www.gamepur.com/news/13951-titanfall-xbox-one-frame-rate-uneven-struggles-lot-even-792p-did-microsoft-.html
Content :Titanfall is just few hours away from its official release on Xbox One and PC. Only few moments ago Respawn Entertainment's lead engineer confirmed that Titanfall on Xbox One ships at 792p. It's a bit disappointing figure because recently concluded open beta of Titanfall ran at 792p only, so we expected something close to 900p for the final build. According to reports coming out from Giant Bomb's Jeff Gerstmann, Titanfall on Xbox One struggles with frame-rate figure despite running at a low resolution of 792p. Jeff Gerstmann wrote in his pre-review of Titanfall : " The frame rate in Titanfall is uneven on the Xbox One and though it's usually fine, it can get downright nasty in specific situations. " " In one Last Titan Standing match–where every player spawns in a robot suit–several players crammed their mechs into a tight area and began duking it out, and the frame rate dived down to what must have been single digits per second. Even out in wider areas, the game feels a little hitchy from time to time, and there's noticeable tearing throughout. " This was the same issue experienced by players in Titanfall open beta, so it seems like Respawn Entertainment was unable to fix it before launch. If Respawn Entertainment was not able to hit the sweet 60 FPS mark with 792 resolution, why didn't they go for 720p resolution (at which Xbox 360 is able to run games like CoD without any issues related to frame-rate) Is there any pressure from Microsoft to up the resolution of Titanfall for Xbox One? This indeed looks like the case because few months ago, NeoGaf insider CBOAT leaked that Respawn wants Titanfall to run at 720p on Xbox One for smooth gameplay experience. Titanfall is powered by a decade old Source Engine so expecting a next-gen graphics/visuals would be a harsh thing. We are still putting this into our rumor category, but issues related to Titanfall's frame-rate mentioned above by Jeff Gerstmann is widespread and the conclusion derived from it can't be ignored. Tell us in the comment section below what you guys think? More about 