Source :http://www.smh.com.au/business/markets/chinese-economy-ukraine-weigh-on-a-20140311-34igj.html
Content :Normal text sizeLarger text sizeVery large text size The Australian dollar has shrugged off the sharp fall in the iron ore price, prompting analysts to predict it could lose its tag as a commodity currency. The local currency, which has traded above US90¢ this week, slipped from Monday's high of US90.64¢, shedding about a quarter of a cent after a monthly survey by the National Australia Bank showed February business conditions deteriorated sharply. It was buying US90.28¢ late Tuesday. The dollar was not weighed down further even as spot iron ore prices recorded their biggest one-day fall in more than four years at the beginning of the week, Chinese steel future sank to record lows and copper continued to weakened. Iron ore for immediate delivery to China slumped by 8.3 per cent to $US104.70 a tonne. "With US rates rising once again and the above concerns simmering in commodity markets the Australian dollar has held up remarkably well. Part of this has been driven by a continued re-pricing of the prospects for the domestic economy," ANZ economists said. "Given this, the employment report on Thursday will be critical for the Australian dollar to maintain its recent gains." Rochford Capital's director Thomas Averill said the local currency also remained buoyant ahead of a multi-billion dollar issuance of Australian government bonds on Wednesday. About $5 billion of the new 2026 bond, with a coupon of 4.25 per cent, is expected to be sold by the Australian Office of Financial Management. "Once that is out of the way, whether [the dollar] can still hold up in the face of a soft iron ore number is going to be an interesting one," Mr Averill said. NAB analysts, which had tipped iron ore prices to drop to $US100 this year as new sources of supply come on stream, said the weakness in commodity prices confirmed an ongoing drag on the dollar from declining terms of trade. "This threatens further slippage in the Australian dollar today as incoming Asia-Pacific markets take notice of the latest iron ore price slump," they said. The resilience in the Australian dollar could see it losing its tag as a commodity currency, IG market strategist Evan Lucas said. The Australian dollar now has the lowest correlation as a commodities currency in recent memory," he said. "Traditionally the Australian dollar has always been seen as a commodities currency, however it remains unmoved by the events of the past week. This shows that the currency is now wed to the domestic environment and the RBA's position on interest rates, coupled with housing and credit demand." In February, the RBA shifted to a neutral monetary policy stance flagged a "period of stability" in interest rates. $A unhooks from iron ore price slump 