Source :http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2577479/All-dough-Sbarro-Pizza-files-bankruptcy-second-time-three-years-struggling-dept-low-consumer-traffic-shopping-malls.html
Content :Sbarro filed for bankruptcy on Monday after struggling with debt and low consumer traffic Last month, Sbarro said it would close 155 of about 400 restaurants it owns in North America to cut costs Sbarro was founded in Brooklyn, New York
in 1956 by Gennaro and Carmela Sbarro, a married couple who had
immigrated from Naples, Italy Published:
15:13 BST, 10 March 2014
|
Updated:
17:28 BST, 10 March 2014 Sbarro LLC, the pizza restaurant chain, on Monday filed for bankruptcy protection for the second time in less than three years, after struggling with too much debt and lower customer traffic in the malls that house many of its restaurants. Sbarro and more than 30 affiliates filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. The Melville, New York-based company has between $100 million and $500 million in both assets and liabilities, according to court papers. Unfortunately Sbarro doesn't have enough dough to pay back their debts and have been forced to file for bankruptcy Last month, Sbarro said it would close 155 of about 400 restaurants it owns in North America to cut costs. Following those closures, it would still have more than 800 restaurants worldwide, including those owned by franchisees. Moody's Investors Service in January said Sbarro has also struggled with high food, labor and occupancy costs. Company representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment about Sbarro's restructuring plans. Sbarro was founded in Brooklyn, New York in 1956 by Gennaro and Carmela Sbarro, a married couple who had immigrated from Naples, Italy. It expanded in the New York City area before launching in 1967 its typical restaurant format, which includes an open kitchen and lets customers serve themselves. The company had previously filed for protection from creditors in April 2011, and emerged from Chapter 11 the following November. The company will have no more than 800 restaurants worldwide after they are forced to close many locations to cut costs Fears for missing schoolgirl, 13, after she failed to... Gardener, 82, killed himself two weeks after receiving... Ministers will unveil 'no deal' Brexit plans NEXT WEEK... From smashed avo and tree planting to a gruesome samurai... Welcome to the Costa Del Kim: North Korean leader sets... Aretha Franklin's final days: Ex-husband Glynn Turman... Grim warning to pet owners about popular dog food brands... Father who said he would sell his daughter to passers-by... My trust fund made me miserable: Lucky relatives set to... 'I love this baby already': Tragic texts husband sent... Devastated families of Genoa bridge victims mourn by... 'She ASKED me to give her a push': 18-year-old who shoved... Mother-of-two, 33, was strangled to death during 'rough... Courageous moment brave Iranian woman confronts a cleric... 'They are all angels - every single one': Emotional... Stunned teacher discovers burglar who carried out £7,000... Police battle to save teenager left fighting for his life... Owner saves his puppy from drowning in his hot tub in... 