Source :http://www.ibtimes.com/titanfall-release-date-tuesday-physical-copies-require-day-one-update-1560421
Content :Excited to pick up “Titanfall” for the Xbox One and PC on Tuesday? You’ll have to install a small update before you play the first-person shooter, according to players on Reddit. Buying a physical copy of the game requires purchasers to download an 840 megabyte, day-one patch before they can start destroying some bad guys. If you’re planning to get the game digitally, the patch will be included in the download. Microsoft is preparing for the much anticipated “Titanfall” launch on Tuesday. Chief Product Officer Marc Whitten took to the Xbox blog March 4 to explain the Xbox One March update, which began rolling out last week. In early February, Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq:MSFT) promised new Xbox One updates would lead to a better, improved “Titanfall” and overall gaming experience. “On March 4, in advance of what is expected to be the biggest game launch of the year, we will be delivering another system update to prepare your Xbox One for ‘Titanfall,’” Whitten posted on Microsoft’s Xbox blog on Feb. 5 . “This update will contain many new features and improvements, most significantly to our party and multiplayer systems.” Microsoft previously launched a number of updates for the Xbox One on Feb. 11. Whitten also talked about these improvements, which include the ability to see and manage storage space, a battery power indicator, the ability to control one's install lineup and the usage of a USB keyboard with the Xbox One. “Xbox One is a platform for continuous innovation and new consumer experiences over time. Just as we did with Xbox 360, Xbox One will have regular updates to deliver new features and platform experiences designed to delight you. We’re always listening to you and we love your feedback, so keep it coming," he added. Whitten also assured players that Microsoft was learning a lot from their suggestions and complaints. “We have received lots of feedback since the launch of Xbox One in November and listening closely to you,” he assured players on March 4. “I’m excited to share that our second, and most significant, system update for Xbox One is starting to roll out today and includes improved matchmaking, party chat and friends features that will make gaming on Xbox One an experience like no other. To me that means playing games like ‘Titanfall’ on the best multiplayer service on the planet, using a new headset or the one you already own, while live broadcasting your games on Twitch.” Are you buying "Titanfall" tomorrow? Leave a comment below or Tweet me! 