Source :http://www.newsledge.com/mcdonalds-lovin-u-s-sales-5418
Content :The biggest Twitch streamers were entertaining thousands every weekend closed beta. And a big chunk of King of the Kill’s fanbase was looking for a fresh take on Battle Royale. Everyone’s favorite source of Steam stats, Steamspy, shows around 235,000 copies (plus/minus 13,800). Plus, Battlegrounds was sold via their own website during the closed beta period. A recent Valve leak of game player counts gives us a very accurate look at PUBG’s total sales on Steam (as of July 1, 2018). Arstechnica dumped the total player count data for more than 13,000 games into a CSV file. PUBG has pushed past 50 million units worldwide according to the developer. Starting later today through July 5th, you can pick up PUBG for $19.99 ($10 off its usual price). We’re almost at a year since I first published this article, and the Battle Royale genre has exploded to heights none of us would ever have imagined. Epic Games’ Fortnite is turning into a cultural phenomenon, but PUBG is still sitting comfortably at the top of Steam. Check out the infographic at the Xbox Wire post for all kinds of chicken dinner stats. 30 million total copies shouldn’t be too far away with the Xbox One version coming next week. The US saw a dip recently as the holiday rush of games begins (Destiny 2?). But that dip didn’t even register thanks to the massive surge in popularity in China. We don’t often see hard numbers like this for the Chinese audience, but it shows just how big games can be over there. PUBG continues its meteoric rise as SteamSpy puts its sales at over 14 million. We haven’t received an official sales update in a little while, but the upward trajectory matches the growth in concurrent player numbers. That’s more than the peak player numbers for Dota 2, CS:GO, Team Fortress 2, ARK, Rocket League and Warframe combined. That’s the number of total PUBG owners that have played the game in the last two weeks. Newer games often see retention rates like this, but they tend to fall quickly. It’ll be interesting what kind of impact Destiny 2’s launch will have on peak numbers tomorrow and the rest of the week. This number is lagging as it struggles to keep up with the accelerated growth PUBG has seen in the past month. Bluehole announced at Gamescom their hit game has already eclipsed 8 million sales. I wasn’t sure if PUBG could ever get close to CSGO’s record peak player of 850,000, but it’s showing no signs of slowing down. SteamSpy pegs the current sales number at around 6.5 million copies . PUBG has its work cut out to dethrone the 1-2 punch of DOTA 2 and CS:GO. On top of that, a new concurrent peak is being hit right now with 429,723 people vying for a serving of chicken dinner. I knew Battlegrounds would be popular, but I don’t think anyone thought it would put up these kind of numbers. Today’s new concurrent peak puts PUBG within about 40,000 of passing Fallout 4 for the #3 spot on Steam’s all-time top 10. PUBG has passed one of the juggernauts of gaming and now sits with the fourth highest peak player count on Steam. Fallout 4 is within reach, but it’s hard to imagine any game challenging CSGO at 850,000+ or Dota 2 at 1.29 million+. We haven’t heard any recent official numbers, but SteamSpy shows the game closing in on 5 million sales. I knew Battle Royale was popular and loved it on H1Z1, but PUBG’s success is insane. Bluehole pushed a more polished Battle Royale experience at just the right time, and backed it up with tremendous support. Congrats to ‘PlayerUnknown’ and the Bluehole team for delivering a great game and keeping it up with plenty of updates and fixes. Developer Bluehole continues to keep fans of the game updated on a day-to-day basis. Developer support plus a more polished Battle Royale experience than anything on the market right now propelled Battlegrounds near the top of Steam’s charts. We haven’t received an official number since the beginning of the month, but Battlegrounds’ popularity is only growing. Despite the surge in players on Battlegrounds, H1Z1: King of the Kill is proving resilient. It’s been crazy watching the growth of the Battle Royale genre over the past year. I can’t imagine how PlayerUnknown and the folks at Bluehole feel passing another milestone. Battlegrounds is showing no signs of slowing down as it breaks 1 million+ copies sold. Huge congrats to the Bluehole team for creating an absolutely awesome experience. Up there with the likes of Dota 2, CSGO, King of the Kill, GTA and Rocket League. While the game’s launch has been incredibly impressive, H1Z1 is still hitting higher concurrent players . We’ll see how the tug of war between the Battle Royale giants shake out over the coming weeks and months. Bluehole is addressing these performance issues and plans to release patches to fix them. Client optimization takes time, and will not be solved in one single patch. We will be working hard over the next 6 months to ensure all players enjoy smooth gameplay with no lag or FPS drops. I know that might not be the case for everyone, but the devs seem committed to getting the game running great across a variety of PC and settings. 