Source :http://www.fierceenergy.com/story/lng-exports-self-limiting/2014-03-10
Content :You’re an investor, a buyer, a marketer, an industry expert, and you need effective means to reach your target audience, build relationships and close sales to drive your business forward. Questex can help you do it. As a global business information company with a unique integrated marketplace approach, Questex enables you to gain industry insights, connect with industry decision-makers, convert captured leads and grow revenues. Through our rich engagement platform of events, digital media, e-learning and powerful branding, lead-generation and business development tools from Questex, you can accelerate the process of converting your B2B event and digital marketing activities into meaningful business contacts—and sales. The value you receive goes beyond market access. It goes beyond face-to-face contacts. Ultimately, our value lies in providing the access and tools you need to buy and sell more efficiently and effectively. Our specialized marketplaces and services will enable you to: Increase brand awarenessBuild relationshipsGenerate qualified sales leadsGain market shareIncrease revenues The Questex Marketplace Platform enables rich engagement connecting marketers and markets with continuous business opportunities. By aggregating deep profile data on marketplace decision-makers, we enable industry professionals to fulfill their information, career development and supplier/partner sourcing requirements. In turn, this provides marketers with a platform to accelerate the conversion of B2B event and digital marketing activities into meaningful business contacts and transactions. Now through a single platform, you can deploy and leverage integrated event, digital media, e-learning and transaction tools at different points along the buyer’s journey to drive year-round engagement with customers. Discover how you can generate leads, engage with customers and grow revenues on the Questex Marketplace Platform. Questex's Nightclub & Bar Show is the nation’s most influential gathering of bar and nightlife professionals. Annually, for over 30 years, more than 36,000 professionals gather from across the U.S. and 50+ other countries to learn, network and grow the industry. The 2018 show will host 600+ exhibitors on our innovative expo floor, leading experts from the industry in our comprehensive conference program, and an unparalleled nightlife lineup. Learn more about how you can reach decision-makers and influencers in the bar and nightlife market at this three-day high energy event. Nightclub & Bar Show Group 