Source :http://www.marketwatch.com/story/what-this-stock-bull-market-needs-to-live-a-6th-year-2014-03-06
Content :SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) — U.S. stocks enter their sixth year of a bull market this Monday, joining a rare group of multi-year stock surges that can support early retirements, pay off college debt, and make pension funds whole. The fifth year of the last bull market ended spectacularly and painfully for investors in October 2007, leaving many so scarred they avoided stocks years into this latest rebound. The good news: The few cycles that make it past their fifth birthday keep motoring along, churning out as much as a decade of gains. Momentum is your friend: On average, the sixth year has produced 26% growth. The bad: There's plenty that’s different this time around, starting with the Federal Reserve’s full-throttle bond buys to flatten yields. The economy needs to get back its mojo — the 3% growth rate that’s been elusive since 2005. “What ended nearly every [bull market] was a recession, so we need continued economic growth,” said Jeff Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial. The almost five-year-old bull market started on March 10, 2009, when the S&P 500 Index SPX, +0.33% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +0.43% both rebounded 6% in one day off their respective multi-year lows reached March 9 . At the low, the S&P 500 closed at a bottom of 676.53, a drop of nearly 57% from its October 2007 highs. Group of three Concern that days are numbered for the current bull market are not unfounded. A minority of bull markets since 1945 have made it to their sixth birthday. P/E ratios are back over 17x, where they were at the end of the last bull market in 2007. Including the current bull market, there have been 12 since the end of World War II. Of those, only half of them made it to a fifth birthday, according to Sam Stovall, chief equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ, in a recent note. After that, the list gets halved again for those making it to a sixth birthday. Those go-go days of the 1990s bull market, which ended in the Internet bust, fattened nest eggs with an S&P 500 gain of over 400%. The history is tantalizing, particularly for investors still repairing the damage from the last bear market and a concurrent housing market collapse. Here’s what this bull market needs to do to make it to its sixth birthday, says Stovall: U.S. economic growth needs to ramp up and reach 3% by the end of 2014 supported by gains in auto sales and housing. Earnings per share growth needs to increase in the mid-to-high single digits in 2014 coupled with gains in revenue. Stovall expects an 8% advance in EPS with revenue rising 3.7%. Congress needs to indicate that it is working toward meaningful tax reform legislation by 2015 to help spur increased capital expenditures and repatriation of foreign earnings. Valuations based on price-to-earnings ratios remain supportive. That last part can be troubling given concerns that stock prices have grown faster than their supporting earnings. For the economy, a 3% growth rate for the U.S. isn’t a slam dunk. The U.S. economy hasn’t grown 3% or more in nine years. A recent revision of fourth-quarter GDP figures showed the economy growing at 2.4% , down from a previous figure of 3.2%. In this aging bull’s favor, it’s still cheap to borrow to buy and build. The yield on the 10-year Treasury US:10_YEAR note is in the 2.7% range — in contrast to 4.65% at the end of the last bull market in October 2007. Now, they’re back over 17x, where they were at the end of the last bull market in 2007. That means that earnings growth has become even more crucial to cool off those multiples. Bull markets tend to tap out when trailing 12-month P/E ratios get into 17x to 18x territory, Kleintop said. “We know what expensive looks like, so we’re pretty shackled to earnings growth,” Kleintop said. Another indication the current bull market will see a sixth birthday is that market breadth is relatively stable, meaning no one sector or handful of stocks is fueling the market. The biggest drivers of the current bull market have been consumer discretionary stocks, followed up by financials, industrials, and tech stocks. Jeff KleintopThat’s opposed to the bull market that ended in 2000, where tech stocks were far and away the sole market driver, according to Kleintop. In the current bull market, growth is being driven by cyclical stocks, which are closely linked to the economy. While they may be expensive, consumer discretionary stocks have been more productive than they have ever been, and are therefore deserving of a higher multiple, Kleintop said. Priceline, Netflix among big bull winners with 1000% gains In 2013, financial and consumer discretionary earnings led the pack with gains of 16.3% and 11.3%, respectively, according to John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet. In addition, consumer discretionary stocks also saw an above-average gain in revenue at 4.8% in 2013. Outside of GDP growth in the 3% area, the key to economic growth in 2014 will have to come from capital expenditure spending and hiring from corporations, which are sitting on record cash piles. That’s crucial because capital investment accounted for no GDP growth in 2013, according to Kleintop. Tech benefits Capital expenditure spending may improve in 2014, according to a recent note by Russ Koesterich, BlackRock global chief investment strategist. Given the lackluster recovery, Koesterich said companies are still conservative given the overindulgences and excess capacity of the past two bull markets. Also, consumer confidence is just beginning to recover with current levels still under the long-term average. As the consumer strength returns to speed, certain industries are likely to benefit. “In terms of specific beneficiaries, we believe spending is likely to be led by financial, telecom and service industries,” Koesterich noted. “This suggests that technology companies may be beneficiaries if capital spending begins to accelerate.” Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. 