Source :http://washingtonexaminer.com/paul-ryan-calls-for-sanctions-against-russian-oligarchs/article/2545342
Content :More Washington Examiner Courts order Trump to reveal internal talks on military's transgender policy Saturday August 18, 2018 Troops and rights groups who are suing President Trump and the Pentagon over proposed restrictions on transgender military service may be closer to forcing the White House to turn over internal correspondence over how the policy was developed. Senate hopes to end years of spending gridlock Saturday August 18, 2018 The Senate next week embarks on an unusual strategy that could result in the passage of most of the 2019 federal government spending in one bill, and before fiscal year-end deadline. John Brennan's case for Trump collusion is stupid Saturday August 18, 2018 The repeated media lie that President Trump in 2016 explicitly directed Russia to hack the Democrats’ emails got new life thanks to former CIA director and drama queen John Brennan. What a guilty verdict for Manafort would mean for Trump and Mueller Saturday August 18, 2018 The persistent claim by President Trump and his legal team that special counsel Robert Mueller is wasting time and taxpayer dollars investigating possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia could lose its impact if Paul Manafort is soon convicted on bank and tax fraud charges, according to legal experts who have followed the former Trump campaign chairman's three-week trial. Former CIA chief John Brennan: Trump 'drunk on power' Friday August 17, 2018 Former CIA Director John Brennan blasted President Trump, whom he described as "drunk on power," in an interview Friday following the White House's Wednesday announcement his security clearance was revoked. George Papadopoulos’ lies ‘impeded’ Mueller investigation into Russian interference, court filing says Friday August 17, 2018 George Papadopoulos’ lies to FBI agents about his contacts with Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign impeded the investigation into Russian interference, preventing authorities from potentially arresting a witness before he left the United States, according to a Friday court filing. White House drafts documents to revoke more security clearances: Report Friday August 17, 2018 The White House is readying formal documents to rescind the security clearances of other former and current government officials, according to a new report. The drafts come in the wake of the revocation of former CIA Director John Brennan’s clearance earlier this week. 60 former CIA officials sign letter condemning Trump's treatment of Brennan Friday August 17, 2018 Sixty former CIA officials released a letter Friday evening condemning President Trump's decision to rescind the security clearance of former CIA Director John Brennan and said the action was comparable to the White House issuing a "political litmus test" to ensure senior government officials agree with the administration. Mark Warner threatens amendment to block Trump from stripping security clearances Friday August 17, 2018 Senate Intelligence Committee vice chairman Mark Warner, D-Va., said Friday he plans on introducing an amendment next week that will prohibit President Trump from stripping critics of their security clearances. China: U.S. should ‘stop releasing’ reports on military Friday August 17, 2018 Defense Secretary Jim Mattis should “stop releasing” assessments of China’s military, the Communist power said in response to a new Pentagon report on the regime’s air force. Jury deliberations in Manafort trial continue to next week Friday August 17, 2018 ALEXANDRIA, Va. — Paul Manafort’s trial for bank and tax fraud will head into its fourth week Monday, after the jury spent the final two days of the week deliberating but reaching no verdict as to the fate of the president’s former campaign chairman. Pilot ejected before military plane crash in Oklahoma: Report Friday August 17, 2018 A military aircraft crashed in northern Oklahoma Friday afternoon, but the pilot was able to eject prior to impact and has been recovered, according to a local media report. National debt jumps $500 billion in less than six months Friday August 17, 2018 The U.S. national debt has increased by more than half a trillion dollars in less than six months, amid predictions that the U.S. is on the verge of returning to another explosion in government borrowing. CNN poll says most think Trump is too friendly with Russia Friday August 17, 2018 A clear majority of U.S. adults believe President Trump has been too friendly to Russia, and only one-third think he's been able to find a healthy balance as he deals with Vladimir Putin, according to a poll released Friday afternoon. Report: Trump intrigued by ex-Blackwater chief's Afghanistan strategy Friday August 17, 2018 President Trump is growing increasingly interested in a proposal from Erik Prince, the former head of Iraq War security firm Blackwater, to replace military personnel in Afghanistan with private contractors, NBC reported Friday. Man who killed five at Florida airport in 2017 sentenced to five life terms in prison Friday August 17, 2018 The man who carried out the deadly mass shooting at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in January 2017 was sentenced Friday to five life terms in prison plus an additional 120 years. | March 09, 2014 12:00 AM House Budget Committee Chairman Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis. speaks at the Conservative Political Action Committee annual conference in National Harbor, Md., Thursday, March 6, 2014. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
Susan Walsh House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan called on the Obama administration to hit Russian oligarchs with sanctions in response to Russia's military occupation of Ukraine 's Crimea region. "There are vulnerabilities within Russia that [Russian President Vladimir Putin ] has politically that can be exploited," the Wisconsin Republican told CBS 's "Face the Nation" on Sunday. "I think we should consider targeting some of the oligarchs around him that are his enablers and he is their enablers." Ryan suggested imposing travel bans and economic sanctions against Putin's wealthy domestic allies, including targeting overseas holdings "that are illicitly gained through this kleptocracy of the Russian economy." Ryan also urged the Obama administration to expand natural gas exports to Europe to help the continent become less dependent on Russian gas and oil -- a significant part of Russia's economy. "We are a nation with vast energy reserves and potential, but with a government that is seen as hostile toward developing those energy reserves, let alone exporting those energy reserves," Ryan said. "If our government changed its tune on that, if we told Europe we are going to green-light these languishing [natural gas] permit applications for exporting … to Europe, that could do a lot to send the signals that we are intent on loosening Russian's grip on its energy to Europe and that we're going to be a reliable ally to loosen their grip." He said the House will move forward on legislation to expedite the permitting process for U.S. natural gas exports to Europe. 