Source :http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/business-news-markets-live/10687061/Business-news-and-markets-as-it-happened-March-10-2014.html
Content :Analysts and traders attributed Vodafone's drop to the fact the company had to raise its initial bid for Spanish cable group Ono. Gox, the Bitcoin exchange that filed for bankruptcy in Tokyo last month, started a related case in the US, blaming its failure on a software flaw in the digital currency. “The facts known to date indicate that it was caused or related to a flaw in the software algorithm that underlies Bitcoin, and ‘hacking’ attacks of one or more persons,” Mt. 15.17 Cypriot Central Bank governor Panicos Demetriades has submitted his resignation, which was accepted by President Nicos Anastasiades, an official statement said. Reuters reported that the reason for his resignation was not immediately clear, but he has had testy relations with the centre-right government, and Anastasiades had said in September he was seeking his removal. The President of the Republic thanked Mr Demetriades for his contribution in the great effort that has been undertaken over the past year to rescue the country from bankruptcy and to stabilize the financial sector. 15.05 Ice cream cones and 99 flakes are in decline as consumers buy tubs and luxury brands, according to The Independent . In an attempt to fight the luxury brands, Cornetto manufacturer has revealed the Choc 'n' Ball, which is being marketed as the “ultimate manly ice cream”. If the combination goes ahead, the enlarged group will become a powerhouse for pineapples, melons and prepared salads, selling $4.6bn worth of produce every year. That bakes in a premium for Fyffes, which would otherwise naturally own 42pc of the group, pro-rata, for its contribution to the pair's $876m combined value using Friday's share prices. But Pierre Omidyar, founder and chairman of eBay, has hit back, accusing Mr Icahn of "making unsubstantiated claims about our company -- and deliberately impugning the integrity of our directors". He was seen by many as a political prisoner, the highest-profile victim of President Vladimir Putin's campaign to rein in the "oligarchs" who had made fortunes snapping up assets in the chaotic years of Boris Yeltsin's rule following the collapse of Soviet communism. Khodorkovsky, who was released from a Russian prison camp near the Arctic Circle last December, has spent much of the last few months travelling. The 50-year-old former oil tycoon was granted a three-month Schengen visa by Switzerland at the end of last year and arrived by train in Basel from Berlin at the start of January to take his two youngest sons back to school. A spokeswoman for Khodorkovsky confirmed he had submitted a request for permanent residency in Switzerland, but she declined to give any further details on where exactly he was hoping to make his home. Mr Bean, the deputy governor of monetary policy at the Bank, told the North East Chamber of Commerce that there were “unmistakable signs that a robust recovery is under way” in the UK. 13.07 Gold was little changed below a four-month high in New York as investors weighed the crisis in Ukraine against the case for the Federal Reserve to keep reducing stimulus Pro-Russian forces advanced in the Crimean peninsula, ignoring Western calls to halt a military takeover before the region holds a referendum on separation. Bullion rose 11pc this year, rebounding from the biggest annual drop since 1981, even as the Fed announced a $10bn reduction to bond buying at each of its past two meetings, leaving purchases at $65bn. The Big Mac seller recently began testing raspberry pastries in San Diego stores as fast-food chains compete to lure diners amid shaky consumer confidence. 11.55 Malaysian Airline System fell to an all-time low after the national carrier’s Flight 370 disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing two days ago. 11.31 Last week, the New York Times published a piece claiming that Britain's main business is laundering oligarch's dirty billions and London is a city where the uber-rich are celebrated "and migrants are exploited but that pretends to be a multicultural utopia". 11.17 Parmjit Singh, head of the food and drink group at Eversheds global law firm, believes the news of Fyffes and Chiquita banana companies merging is just a taste of things to come. For many food producers this is a natural next step to meet the pressure to achieve cost efficiencies, improve shareholder returns and attract investment. Investors are piling into contracts on the Teucrium Corn Fund, which tracks US prices for the grain used in everything from motor fuel to soft-drink sweetener. A record of more than 16,000 call options giving the right to buy the exchange-traded fund changed hands last week as prices for bullish contracts rose to a three-year high compared with puts. 10.42 French industrial production unexpectedly fell for a second month and business confidence declined, indicating the recovery may struggle to build momentum this quarter. Output dropped 0.2pc in January from December, led by electricity and gas production, the country’s statistics office in Paris said today. The world's second largest consumer goods company did not reveal the sum paid but said it was its biggest Chinese purchase in more than ten years. China’s expanding middle class doesn’t trust city water—and sometimes not even bottled water—and is splurging on home and office purification systems like those made by Qinyuan, which had sales of about $200m in 2013. Mark Klelnman reports that city investors have expressed doubts about Mr McIlwee, and there have been senior level discussions about his position since Tesco abandoned its key profit margin target last month. Mr McIlwee is said to have an "uncomfortable working with relationship" with Philip Clarke, Tesco's chief executive, according to Sky. The change would be the latest upheaval for Tesco, who is facing strong competition from discount supermarkets such as Aldi and Lidl. 09.42 Back in the stock market, engine-maker Rolls-Royce is among the biggest risers, up 2.5pc after it was disclosed on Friday evening that it would buy-out Daimler’s 50pc stake in their power systems joint venture. The acquisition should be modestly accretive as RR generates little income from its cash and Rolls-Royce Power Systems contributed almost £300m to earnings before interest and taxes last year (15pc). 09.13 The French economy is expected to grow by 0.2pc in the first quarter, the country's central bank said Monday, confirming a preliminary forecast issued a month ago. The bank makes its forecasts based on a monthly survey of a panel of private sector executives, who have reported that business confidence remained largely unchanged in February. "Deliveries are intensifying" while "the order books are filling out somewhat", said the bank which also expects business activity to improve slightly in March. 09.04 Over in the FTSE 100, weak economic data from China - the world's biggest metals consumer - has hit mining shares, with Glencore Xstrata down 1.7pc, Anglo American off 1.6pc and Antofagasta 1.3pc lower. The shock drop in exports raises serious questions about how realistic Chinese growth prospects are and casts doubt on their current target. 08.28 Asian stock marketsare down, battered by weak Chinese trade and a reduced estimate for Japan's economic growth. Shares in Malaysia Airlines tumbled on news of the weekend disappearance of one its jets enroute to Beijing. Data released on the weekend showed China's exports fell by an unexpectedly large 18 pc in February, possibly denting hopes trade will help drive the slowing economy while communist leaders push ambitious reforms. China's official 2014 economic growth target of 7.5pc, announced last week by Premier Li Keqiang, assumes trade also will grow by 7.5pc. 08.15 Europe's main stock markets fell at the start of trading on Monday, with London's benchmark FTSE 100 index down 0.1pc. Frankfurt's DAX 30 slid 0.48pc to 9,305.51 points and in Paris the CAC 40 dipped 0.08pc to 4,363.02 compared with Friday's closing values. Labour has announced that its "jobs guarantee" scheme for young unemployed people will be extended to cover the whole of the next election, should the party win in May 2015. The Tories reckon Labour's sums "don't add up" but Ed Balls has promised to use a bank bonus tax to pay for it. The country's fourth quarter growth was revised down with Japan's economy growing at an annual rate of just 0.7pc in 2013, below the estimates of 1pc. The disappointing figures add to a recent run of soft indicators that have raised doubts about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's strategy to spark sustainable growth through massive monetary and fiscal stimulus, as well as structural reforms. 