Source :http://www.hospitalitynet.org/news/4064350.html
Content :W Hong Kong combines the personality and style of an independent hotel with the reliability and attentive service of a major business hotel. You graduated from the Rutgers University in New Jersey in the US with an MBA When I was in my 30s, I was working in Shanghai as the Marketing Director at Hyatt. Professors would fly to Shanghai to give lectures. The customers didn't seem grounded in most people's reality and were often simply interested in showing off. The next summer I went to work for Conrad Jupiters Casino on the Golf Coast in Australia as a steward. I remember I kept checking the clock hoping time would go faster. He gave me a recommendation to be interviewed by the GM, Ron Hughes. When I graduated with my Bachelor's degree, I looked for the best hotel group that could provide young people with good career opportunities. I chose Hyatt because it had a good corporate training program which had a record of bringing young people into management jobs quickly. When my fellow economics graduate friends came and stayed at the resort hotel on the weekends, I had to carry their bags... We all had a good laugh. I left Hyatt to join Starwood (Sheraton Tower in Singapore). Hyatt's culture feels more like a family, whereas Starwood measures everything, including your performance, which made things less complicated and there were also no hidden agendas. W Hong Kong is located next to three big banks, and they are our corporate customers. It's quite funny that you see them standing next to guys who are from the creative industry who have tattoos and body piercings everywhere. I think they enjoy seeing the diversity of guests, many of whom are from outside of their normal circles. We also cater to smaller MICE (meetings, incentives, conferencing and exhibitions) as well as the high-end leisure market. But that fun twist can be easily seen as a gimmick if we don't have our basic service standards in place, we don't have the right to do the fun things at the W. We are a luxury hotel and we need to deliver. To answer your question, when I started working for Hyatt after my corporate training When I started as the GM of Westin Fuzhou, Fujian in China, they sent me to W, which is a very marketing-oriented company. I naturally drift towards marketing even though I am the GM...
You have spent nearly your entire career in Asia. Australia, you are dealing with primarily domestic businesses. When you are young, you want to travel and see the world. I was also intrigued by Asia; I have mostly worked in China and Hong Kong. I have experienced so many years in one region, I feel that I have adopted some of the Asian values. I used to laugh at some of my colleagues who were married to someone from a different nationality yet couldn't speak more than a few sentences of their spouses native language, but I've become one of them. Initially in Asia I had difficulty reading between the lines. It takes a lot to adjust to the sensitive side of the culture; to be able to read people's inner thoughts without being told explicitly. What are the most challenging issues you are facing on your current position? It took me over one year to adjust to the W brand concept, which means constantly We often have events such as pool parties with 300 or 400 guests, loud music and dancing until midnight. For example, a banker tries to check in at 3:00 in the morning and sees a wild party in full swing. I think the only time I lose track of time is at the end of the day, say 7:00 PM, I start to work on things like answering e-mails, signing checks, etc. There are a lot issues going on everyday and you need to have feedback in order to understand the circumstances. It's not just being an understanding person; it is about having the information to know what is happening: What challenges my people are facing and how we can help them. I guess a lot of it is about talking to people at different levels in the organization. In our hotel we have an annual program in which every manager must work one day in a junior staff's position, and it could be housekeeping, a pastry chef, or an engineer in order to understand how difficult some of the jobs are. Also, people in hotels tend to form tight teams. I encourage my people to do things differently internally and for our guests. You have to look for something that will elevate the brand by capturing people's interest and generate profit at the same time. For example, when a team has been serving Japanese cuisine in the same restaurant, in the same way for 10 years, they become really good at it. final decisions because he provides the direction for the steering committee, although it may not be obvious. Maybe if the GM was more understanding and showed his face more frequently, he would make a better impression on his people. People who are inconsiderate to guests and talents put a frown on my face. I think it's ridiculous when people rely on their seniority or status trying to get things done. Also, I went through a very tough leadership role that required operational focus in Then I was given the opportunity to work in this amazing and stylish hotel here in Hong Kong. Ambitious young people who are waiting for being promoted tend to get frustrated. Contact Priit PavelsonPublisherPhone: +31 65 79 41 741 Send Email 