Source :http://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/staying-in/video-games/titanfall-review-new-xbox-one-3227110
Content :Even in this era of high def hyperbole, Titanfall has an awful lot to live up to. Microsoft are hoping Respawn’s Xbox exclusive shooter will be the sort of dead cert system seller that'll bridge the sales gap that has emerged between the Xbox One and rival Sony's PlayStation 4. So much so, in fact, they're subsidising a new cut-price console bundle which comes with a copy of the game when it's released on Friday. We’ve been here before, of course: popular history has it that Halo, another sci-fi themed first person shooter, helped establish the original Xbox as a contender in a console landscape dominated by the PlayStation. The difference, though, is that Titanfall is a multiplayer only game. In many respects this shouldn’t matter. Anecdotal evidence has long pointed to Battlefield and Call of Duty players treating those titles’ story modes as optional extras: the underwhelming undercard to multiplayer’s main event; mere distractions to the demands of deathmatches. And yet clearly there are also many FPS fans for whom it does matter, and who view such content as a crucial purchasing decision. Titanfall’s concession to them is its ‘campaign multiplayer’ mode, a fundamentally flawed attempt to provide the best of both worlds by loosely linking matches with an overarching narrative that remains largely unaffected by anything either team does during them. We're testing a new site:This content is coming soon Sure there are some scripted events and a ceaseless stream of NPC chatter that you’ll struggle even to hear mid-combat, let alone make sense of, but for the main campaign multiplayer feels much like regular multiplayer only with fewer gameplay options. To compound further the sheer futility of this back-of-the-box-ticking exercise, players have to complete both sides of the campaign to unlock a full compliment of Titans for use in other modes. It’s a rare - albeit surprisingly significant - misstep in what otherwise often resembles a masterclass in multiplayer shooter design. Video LoadingClick to playTap to play The video will start in 8CancelRespawn’s most admirable achievement, though, is that it’s also brilliant fun to play. Mindful of the fresh-faced FNGs the game is sure to attract, Titanfall is beautifully accessible - joyously so for anyone who’s been scarred by COD’s merciless killing fields - yet still boasts enough depth to cater for combat veterans. It’s an approach that can be felt everywhere from the one-use booster cards that can give you a temporary but tangible edge in encounters to the post-match Epilogue that allows losing players to save face (and XP) by escaping the battlefield. The apogee of this aesthetic is surely the auto-targeting Smart Pistol, a wonderfully empowering piece of tech that allows newcomers to feel like headshotting heroes without ever threatening the overall integrity of the game. Perversely for a game predicated on the presence of multi-story mechs, less is very much more. The small but perfectly tuned arsenal of weapons, upgrades and loadouts, for example, offers a smaller number of meaningful choices rather than overwhelming players with options. And even though Titanfall features only five gametypes - Attrition (deathmatch, essentially), Hardpoint Domination, Capture the Flag, Pilot Hunter (in which only player kills count), and the round-based Last Titan Standing - each feels fresh due to the redesigned battlefield dynamics. The 15 or so maps on offer impress more for their layouts rather than their looks, the best becoming colossal climbing frames that you clamber around and over with practiced ease. Verticality - so often clumsily handled by shooters, if at all - becomes an essential tactic, and it’s the sense of scale coupled with an unprecedented freedom of movement that marks out Titanfall as a truly next gen experience. Whether all that’s enough to convert single players to the cause or convince floating gamers to splash out on a new console remains to be seen. On the one hand, criticising Titanfall for ‘just’ being a multiplayer shooter feels as fatuous as writing off a Ferrari for ‘just’ being a car, and yet it remains the giant robot in the room. One thing’s for sure, though: Respawn have certainly gone above and beyond the Call of Duty to reinvent the genre for a new generation. Titanfall is released on Xbox One and PC on March 14th. An Xbox 360 version will follow on March 28th. View gallery 