Source :http://www.insidefutures.com/article/1175326/The%20Energy%20Report%203/10/14.html
Content :A big drop in China exports has the commodity complex fearing demand destruction drops more than geo-political risk. Forget about Ukraine, Libya, a strong US Jobs report or the possibility of a terrorist blowing up a Jet from Malaysia, it is about China in the early trade. Chinese exports plunged tanked by a shocking 18.1% leading to a 23 billion dollar trade deficit. The markets are trying to adjust to a shaky new Lunar New Year. The reason why this is so shocking is just one month ago China trade expanded by 10.6%. It looks like copper buyers loaded up on supply fearing what traders China’s consumer prices rose 2% in February at their slowest rate in 13 months. Pork prices are again on the rise as the Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea virus is devastated the US pig crop. Producer prices fell for the 24th consecutive month by dropping 2 percent, slightly above forecasts for a 1.9 percent drop leading to more concerns that China is having a hard time keeping things together. Add to that Japan revised down its growth estimate for the final three months of last year after announcing a record current account deficit for January. Japan’s Cabinet Office said both private and public demand was lower than its earlier estimate. Reuters is reporting that armed protesters in eastern Libya traded threats with the government on Sunday in a tense stand-off over the unauthorized sale of oil from a rebel-held port. A North Korean-flagged tanker, the Morning Glory, docked on Saturday at the port of Es Sider and local daily al-Wasat said it had loaded $36 million of crude oil. Prime Minister Ali Zeidan has said the military will bomb the 37,000-tonne vessel if it tries to leave. Officials said on Sunday that the navy and pro-government militias had dispatched boats to stop it from getting out. The rebels said any attack on the tanker would be “a declaration of war.” The escalating conflict over the country’s oil wealth is a sign of mounting chaos in Libya, where the government has failed to rein in fighters who helped oust veteran ruler Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 and who now defy state authority. The protesters, who also include former soldiers and ex-oil guards led by a former anti-Gaddafi commander, Ibrahim Jathran, have seized three eastern ports in the OPEC member country. The Defense Ministry issued orders to the chief of staff, air force and navy to deal with the tanker. “The order authorizes the use of force and puts the responsibility for any resulting damage on the ship owner,” it said in a statement. Now the tanker’s movements are under complete control and nobody can move it,” said Culture Minister Habib al-Amin, who acts as informal government spokesman. “All efforts are being undertaken to stop and seize the tanker, if necessary by a (military) strike, if it does not follow orders,” he said, adding that state prosecutors would treat the loading of the crude as smuggling. There was no sign of any immediate military action, but Libyan news websites showed some small boats close to a tanker which they said was the Morning Glory. Libya has been trying to rebuild its army since Gaddafi’s overthrow, but analysts say it is not yet a match for battle-hardened militias that fought in the eight-month uprising that toppled him. Trilby Lundberg reported that the average U.S. price per gallon for regular gasoline is now almost $3.51, the highest since last September. Diesel fuel prices also rose, increasing by 2.58 cents from two weeks earlier to an average $4.0323 per gallon. The blame goes to higher “ethanol” prices, stemming in part from the unrest in Ukraine. According to the survey, the lowest average price for a gallon of unleaded gas in the U.S. is $3.18 in Jackson, Mississippi. If you have any questions or if you want to get my wildly popular trade levels call me at (888-264-5665) or Email pflynn@pricegroup.com if you want to start trading apply by hitting this link https://newaccount.admis.com/?office=269 Phil Flynn The PRICE Futures Group A Subsidiary of Price Holdings, Inc. – an Employee Owned Diversified Financial Services Firm. Investing in futures can involve substantial risk of loss & is not suitable for everyone. Trading foreign exchange also involves a high degree of risk. The leverage created by trading on margin can work against you as well as for you, and losses can exceed your entire investment. Before opening an account and trading, you should seek advice from your advisors as appropriate to ensure that you understand the risks and can withstand the losses. The information and data in this report were obtained from sources considered reliable. Their accuracy or completeness is not guaranteed and the giving of the same is not to be deemed as an offer or solicitation on our part with respect to the sale or purchase of any securities or futures. The Price Futures Group, its officers, directors, employees, and brokers may in the normal course of business have positions, which may or may not agree with the opinions expressed in this report. Any decision to purchase or sell as a result of the opinions expressed in this report will be the full responsibility of the person authorizing such transaction. Reproduction and/or distribution of any portion of this report are strictly prohibited without the written permission of the author. The Energy Report 08/17/18 - Friday, August 17, 2018 Dollars for Oil. The Energy Report 08/16/18 - Thursday, August 16, 2018 Raging Contagion. The Energy Report 08/15/18 - Wednesday, August 15, 2018 Turkish Bath. The Energy Report 08/14/18 - Wednesday, August 15, 2018 Turkey Iran and Shale. Mr. Flynn is one of the world's leading energy market analysts, providing individual investors, professional traders, and institutions with up-to-the-minute investment and risk management insight into global petroleum, gasoline, and energy markets. Phil Flynn's accurate and timely forecasts have come to be in great demand by industry and media worldwide. His impressive career goes back almost three decades, gaining attention with his market calls as writer of “The Energy Report”. He is a daily contributor to Fox Business Network where he provides daily market updates and analysis. Phil’s daily commentary is also featured in Futures Magazine, International Business Times, Inside Futures, 312 Energy, Enercast, among many others. He attended Daley College in Chicago before beginning his career on the trading floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange which eventually led him and his team to The PRICE Futures Group. Media highlights include: The President of the United States, Bloomberg, ABC, CBS, NBC´s "Today Show" and "Nightly News with Tom Brokaw", CNBC, CNN/CNNfn, FOX´s "O´Reilly Factor", PBS´s "The Newshour with Jim Lehrer" and "Nightly Business Report", MSNBC´s "The News with Brian Williams", The Wall Street Journal, Business Week, Investor´s Business Daily, The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune, Associated Press, The Toronto Globe & Mail, Houston Chronicle, Futures Magazine, Inside Futures, and National Public Radio. 