Source :http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2014/03/respawn-patch-to-increase-xbox-one-titanfalls-792p-resolution-likely/
Content :Even though Titanfall is also launching on PC tomorrow (not to mention on the Xbox 360 later this month), the game is correctly seen as the most important technology and gameplay showcase so far in the Xbox One's short life. So the Microsoft-supporting pixel counters out there might be a bit worried to hear that the game will be launching at a resolution of 1408x792. That oddly specific number, the same as the resolution for last month's beta, packs exactly 10 percent more pixels in each dimension than the 720p images players are used to on most games for last-generation consoles. Respawn lead engineer Richard Baker confirmed Titanfall 's launch resolution to Eurogamer , but he also said that the team was "likely to increase resolution after we ship" via a downloadable patch. "We've been experimenting with making it higher and lower," Baker told the site. "One of the big tricks is how much ESRAM we're going to use, so we're thinking of not using hardware MSAA and instead using FXAA to make it so we don't have to have this larger render target. We're going to experiment. The target is either 1080p non-anti-aliased or 900p with FXAA. We're trying to optimize... we don't want to give up anything for higher res. So far we're not 100 percent happy with any of the options. We're still working on it." Baker's comments highlight the give-and-take regarding resolution and other graphical issues that developers often have to juggle now that the easier-to-achieve 720p resolution is no longer the de facto console standard. All things being equal, more pixels is generally better than fewer, but processing those additional pixels every frame on graphically intense games can necessitate either dropping the frame rate, lowering the detail and polish on in-game models, or reducing the number of things happening on screen at once. This balancing act between conflicting graphical priorities seems to be more of an issue on the Xbox One than the PS4 these days, with Microsoft's system fallinga bitbelow 1080p for many games where the PS4 version manages "full HD" without issue. Of course, Titanfall isn't coming to the PlayStation 4, so console players are stuck with what they've got on Microsoft's system this time around. Playing with the launch-day version of the game on the Xbox One this weekend, I can't say the game's visuals suffered for what's apparently less than 1080p resolution. On the contrary, the game's visual style packs quite a bit of pop, with vibrant colors, smooth curves, and expansive vistas. The very occasional frame rate dips and screen tearing that came up during some especially intense scenes were more significant. I only noticed these issues a couple of times during a full weekend of play, but other people in my chat party were complaining about similar issues more frequently (Eurogamer's analysis of the beta also found some frame rate dips). In short, none of these graphical issues took away from what has been a very enjoyable experience with Titanfall so far . Still, the game seems destined to be a lightning rod for gamers who are keen on arguing about which console has the most graphical horsepower. 