Source :http://www.kiplinger.com/slideshow/investing/T052-S003-the-10-worst-stocks-of-the-bull-market/
Content :That's a pretty remarkable feat, given that so many stocks were priced for economic oblivion in early 2009. The stocks are ranked by largest negative total returns from March 9, 2009, through February 21, 2014. The true biggest-losers list would have been all of the stocks that went to zero in the financial crisis or its aftermath and no longer trade. And whatever the price of gold does, mining shares tend to do on steroids: Their moves are often exaggerated relative to the metal. So Newmont Mining ( NEM ), one of the world's biggest gold producers, saw its stock collapse from $70 in 2011 to a low of just under $21 in early February of this year, a drop of 70%. But with Newmont there's an additional twist: The company raises or lowers its cash dividends depending on gold's price. In February, Newmont said it would slash its payout in the near term in light of gold's long decline. It's not a coincidence, then, that the post-crash year of 2009 was a great one for FTI, when it earned a record $2.63 a share on revenue of $1.4 billion. But since then, the West Palm Beach, Fla., company has yet to top those profits, even though revenue has crept higher. FTI disappointed Wall Street again last month by reporting a net loss for 2013 of 27 cents a share after one-time charges. Two problems seem evident from FTI's financial statements: First, although management has been using capital to buy back stock, annual interest costs of $51 million are sapping the bottom line. Whatever the reasons, even at the stock's depressed level just one of the eight Wall Street analysts following FTI now recommends buying it. EXCO ( XCO ), an energy producer, decided years ago to tie its future to natural gas rather than oil. And that's the root cause of the 40% slide in EXCO's stock over the past five years: Amid a glut of supply, U.S. natural gas prices have fallen by more than half since mid 2008. Thanks to the frigid winter, gas prices have rebounded, creating hope that EXCO's hefty drilling investments (it shelled out $340 million for capital spending last year) will produce a bigger payday. Still, with earnings expected at just 20 cents a share this year, there isn't much to recommend the stock — except maybe this: Two savvy investors, WL Ross & Co. and Oaktree Capital Group, are major shareholders, with stakes, at last report, of 19% and 17%, respectively. The San Diego company, whose prepaid, no-contract wireless plans under the Cricket brand are popular with the young, had been rumored for years to be a buyout target. Between that point and AT&T's bid, however, Leap was always left waiting at the altar, and its stock price moved relentlessly lower, bottoming at about $5 before AT&T rode in. Education companies, including Phoenix-based Apollo ( APOL ), have had a rough five years as federal and state authorities have zeroed in on alleged predatory practices. At worst, regulators say, for-profit educators have aggressively recruited students, persuaded them to borrow heavily to pay for school, then provided them lousy training that has left too many unable to find work after graduating (if they graduated). The government's crackdown ratcheted up in February, when the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau sued ITT Educational Services for allegedly exploiting students and warned of more actions to come. For Apollo, which owns University of Phoenix, the pall cast by the government's crackdown has helped drag down enrollment. "As the best-known name in the higher-education group, Apollo is likely to benefit when investor confidence in the sector rebounds from the bottom," says Trace Urdan, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities. But with enrollment continuing to slide, "it's still too early to declare an inflection" in the outlook, Urdan says. Bottom line: For-profit education will survive, but just how profitable the industry will be is the big question mark. Not surprisingly, the future didn't turn out to be as consistently bright for solar as the wildest bulls wanted to believe. Then, in February, First Solar dropped a bombshell: Fourth-quarter sales and earnings, at $768 million and 89 cents a share, respectively, fell far short of Wall Street expectations. The company blamed part of the shortfall on some projects running behind schedule, delaying recording of the revenue. But many investors now are waiting for First Solar's analyst meeting in mid March, when the company will give its annual forecast. At 18 times estimated 2014 earnings of $3.28 a share, First Solar stock is well below nosebleed territory. In mid 2006, a bit more than a year before the start of the 2007-09 recession, the Eden Prairie, Minn., company loaded up on debt to buy 1,100 grocery stores from the Albertsons chain. Besides biting off more than it could handle with the Albertsons deal, Supervalu faced intensifying competition from the likes of Wal-Mart Stores. It has shed hundreds of stores over the past year to end up with a core of wholesaling and retailing businesses (led by the Save-a-Lot chain), which are expected to have total annual sales of $17 billion. Wall Street analysts figure that Supervalu will earn 65 cents a share in the year that ends February 2015. At 11 times estimated earnings, the stock looks cheap — but this is a company that has a lot to prove to investors. Looking for new direction, the company's board of directors stunned Wall Street in June 2011 by giving the CEO job to Ron Johnson, creator of Apple's ultra-cool retail stores. Johnson's arrival stoked excitement in the retail industry, but it would end disastrously: His strategies — including eliminating markdowns — alienated many of Penney's core customers. With its stock continuing to crater, Penney axed Johnson in April 2013 and brought back the previous CEO, Myron Ullman. In a shock, Penney said on February 24 that sales at stores open at least one year rose 2% in the holiday quarter. Most Wall Street analysts aren't convinced: Just three out of 25 who cover the retailer advise buying its stock. Michigan's largest bank survived the financial crisis, but it made paupers of its shareholders in the process. Bleeding from mortgage losses, Flagstar ( FBC ) needed a $523 million capital infusion in January 2009 to stay afloat. The bank was forced to issue mountains of stock to the rescuers, severely diluting the ownership of the rest of its shareholders. After bottoming in 2011, shares of the "new" Flagstar have been on the comeback trail as the Troy, Mich., bank has turned profitable again and has settled a host of mortgage-fraud claims with the government. Bottom line: With the shares selling just slightly above the bank's theoretical net worth (assets minus liabilities), there's value here — if not much excitement. Alpha Natural Resources ( ANR ) is a sad symbol of the downfall of King Coal. As the largest coal producer in Appalachia, Alpha had been slammed by the forces that have slashed demand for the fuel — in particular, cheap natural gas from the nation's fracking boom and mounting environmental concerns. As a result, the stock has lost two-thirds of its value since the start of the bull market in March 2009, the worst performer in our tally. Although many speculators have tried to call the bottom for Alpha shares over the past three years, every bounce in the stock has faded. Billionaire hedge-fund manager John Paulson, who had taken a flier on Alpha shares in late 2011, gave up in the fourth quarter of last year and sold his stake. 