Source :http://www.classicalite.com/articles/6642/20140310/xbox-one-titianfall-bundle-uk-price-drop-hopes-shoot-down.htm
Content :By James Knight J.knight@classicalite.com on Mar 10, 2014 05:15 PM EDT The next generation gaming war isn’t over just yet. The Microsoft Xbox One is hoping to shoot down the super successful Sony Playstation 4 with the release of a brand new system bundle. The new critically acclaimed online shooter 'Titanfall' is coming free with select Xbox One consoles. Microsoft also recently dropped the price of the system for UK gamers. Thinking about going out and buying an Xbox One after work today? You might want to sleep it on it for one more night, or at least wait until midnight, when the new Titanfall bundle drops. Xbox’s chief marketing and strategy officer Yusuf Mehdi released a statement to the press about tomorrow’s bundle release: "In many ways, the launch of Titanfall will enable us to deliver the first truly next generation multiplayer game--one that will take advantage of the new party and chat improvements we're delivering, build on the power of the cloud in a way only Microsoft can, and connect fans on Xbox Live. If you've been waiting for the biggest game of the generation before purchasing your Xbox One, this special, limited time offer is perfect for you." The Titanfall bundle is available for pre-sell at most major game retailer. Check your local stores to see if there is going to be a midnight release in your area. The system recently got a little cheaper for U.K. games. Microsoft’s U.K. marketing director Harvey Eagle issued a statement about the price drop: “At Xbox, we believe there’s never been a better time to join the new console generation. To help our fans do just that, Xbox One will be available at the new UK estimated retail price (ERP) of £399.99 from February 28th.” Is the free game download enough to get you to buy the system? Let us know in the comments section below. © 2016 The Classical Art, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission. 