Source :http://business.financialpost.com/2014/03/10/titanfall-is-great-but-probably-not-a-reason-to-choose-the-new-xbox-over-the-playstation-4-like-microsoft-hopes/
Content :[np_storybar title=”Titanfall review coming Thursday” link=””] It’s been a rough year for high profile games with an online focus. Several games, most notably Sim City and Battlefield 4 — both produced by the same publisher, Electronic Arts — did not perform as advertised when they were first opened to the public.Post Arcade has spent some early hands-on time with Titanfall , but are withholding a full scored review until we are able to test the online-only game in real-world conditions when the servers go public on Tuesday. A full review will be posted on Thursday. Microsoft Corp. has a lot riding on Titanfall , the new game from developer Respawn Entertainment, the creators of the blockbuster Call of Duty series. The world’s largest software company reportedly spent big bucks to keep the game away from Sony’s rival PlayStation platforms, and the company clearly sees Titanfall as not just a differentiator, but a system-seller for its new Xbox One console. Still, while the game is very good at what it does, it may have a more limited appeal than Microsoft is hoping. The first thing you notice when you boot up Titanfall is that it needs to connect to a data centre to work. No single player really means no single player. You can’t even customize your player character without first logging into a server. Once you get in, it quickly becomes apparent exactly what Titanfall is, namely the multiplayer from the multi-million selling Call of Duty games, only with giant robots and free-running instead of modern military combat. EA/RespawnThere are tweaks to the game that make it friendlier to new players, and changes to the gameplay allow more casual players not to be smacked around by the experts (quite as much), but at its heart it’s still Call of Duty With Robots . Which is fine. It’s the most popular part of the best-selling modern video-game series new and improved by the people who defined the format. That’s what many fans were hoping for. The problem is that while it’s very good it’s also very narrow . Titanfall is a very thin slice of what games can offer and isn’t even the big, blockbuster package that comes with the yearly installment of Call of Duty (which has a spectacle-based single player and, usually, a co-operative multiplayer mode as well). EA/RespawnWhich isn’t to say that Titanfall needs all that stuff. The game succeeds on its own merits in what it’s trying to do. But it’s hard to imagine buying an Xbox One over a PlayStation 4 just for the sake of Titanfall , especially if you were already leaning towards a PlayStation. It’s been a lukewarm year for Microsoft’s Xbox brand. When the new Xbox One was announced last spring, several aspects of the system — such as the inability to sell used games and frequent online check-ins for the system — were roundly reviled by consumers. As such, Microsoft quickly backtracked on some of those features before the system was released in late November. The PlayStation 4 has reportedly outsold the Xbox One by as many as two million units (a third more total sales). As a plum exclusive coming just after launch, Titanfall is the game that’s supposed to stop Microsoft from getting entrenched in second place. That’s a lot of weight to put on a game that will really only appeal to a very specific (albeit large) group of people. The way I see it, Titanfall will sell a lot of units, and will help the Xbox One’s overall offerings, but the Xbox One will still likely be behind the PlayStation 4 for the foreseeable future. Hopefully, the game — which I want to re-iterate is very good at what it does — doesn’t get unfairly maligned for not propping up the system all by itself. 