Source :http://goingconcern.com/post/accounting-news-roundup-sbarro-bankrupt-again-pwcs-latest-buy-wisconsin-model-031014
Content :ANR January 21, 2010 • How to find the “best and brightest” [ CPA Success ]
This may be a better topic for the friendly HR professional but figuring out who these future accounting rock stars are before they show up on their first day is “more art than science”, as Tom Hood notes. Popular to some old-school thought, GPA does not always indicate who’s going to dominate in the real world and “soft skills” — besides being a terrible term — are in more demand than ever. • Help The The American Red Cross of Greater Chicago Help Haiti [ Re: The Auditors ]
The American Red Cross of Greater Chicago is having a drive today and since Francine’s friend is the CFO, we’ll be glad pass around the news: One of my oldest and dearest friends, Guillermo Becerra , is the CFO of the American Red Cross of Greater Chicago. I asked him how I could help him, and the Red Cross, during what must be an incredibly busy time post-Haiti earthquake. “The Chicagoland community will come together on Thursday, January 21 to give to the American Red Cross as we help the people of Haiti recover from the catastrophic earthquake that devastated their country last week. The Chicago Helps Haiti media relief drive begins at 5 a.m. and lasts until 11 p.m. Nearly every TV and radio station in our area will be promoting this fundraising effort throughout the day. You can help too, by giving via phone or online, and sharing your thoughts here, on Facebook or Twitter , and by asking others to give. To give from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. CALL 1 (877) 565-5000 or visit www.chicagoredcross.org/haiti Plus, we’re guessing that if you give, your 2009 tax return isn’t much of a concern. • If Your Password Is 123456, Just Make It HackMe [ NYT ]
The Times is concerned that you have a shitty password which puts you at a huge risk of being hacked by someone sitting in their parents’ basement. Imperva found that nearly 1 percent of the 32 million people it studied had used “123456” as a password. The second-most-popular password was “12345.” Others in the top 20 included “qwerty,” “abc123” and “princess.” You know who you are, ye with stupid passwords. Also, don’t even think of changing it to “654321” because that drops in at #19. 