Source :http://invezz.com/news/equities/9515-microsoft-share-price-titanfall-seen-as-a-game-changer-for-xbox-one
Content :Equities Could giant robots turn the tide of the console race? iNVEZZ.com, Monday, March 10: Microsoft Corp (NASDAQ:MSFT) is hoping that it could gain an advantage in the video game console race with the help of giant robots. In November last year, Microsoft released its first new video game console in eight years, the Xbox One, but some of the company’s decisions in the months prior to the launch prompted criticism. Xbox One sales have so far been lagging Sony Corp’s new console, the PlayStation 4, which also launched in November, priced $100 lower than Microsoft’s offering in the US. However, the Redmond-based software giant believes that the tide could start turning tomorrow, when ‘Titanfall’, a first person shooting game hits the stores in the US. In today’s trading, Microsoft shares were 0.1 percent down at $37.83 as of 13:42 UTC. Microsoft’s Xbox One debuted with strong sales, but apparently not enough to overcome its rival Sony in the early stages of the latest console war. According to estimates from researcher NPD Group, the PlayStation outsold the Xbox One in January by at least a 2-to-1 margin in Microsoft’s home market, the US. On March 4, the Japanese company revealed that the PlayStation 4 had sold six million units since its November 15 launch. In contrast Microsoft hasn’t released Xbox One sales figures since the start of this year, a sign that they may be weaker than expected. It appears the US giant needs a considerable boost to catch up with its Japanese peer. According to Yusuf Mehdi, head of marketing and strategy for Microsoft's Xbox group, Titanfall may provide such a fillip. “It’s hard to overstate the importance of Titanfall to the Xbox One release this year,” Bloomberg Businessweek last week quoted Mehdi as saying. “For us, it’s a game changer. It’s a system seller.” Titanfall, a first person shooter (FPS) that focuses on multiplayer battles with futuristic weapons and giant robots, has already generated a lot of buzz amongst players; its open beta version attracted more than two million players, overloading some of Xbox One’s servers. While not entirely exclusive to Xbox One, Titanfall will not appear on PlayStation 4, meaning that players who want to experience the game will have to play it either on Microsoft’s console or on PC. For Titanfall’s US launch, Microsoft is rolling out an Xbox One bundle priced at $499 that includes a free copy of Titanfall, which by itself will retail for $59.99. In the UK, the company announced a price cut to £399 (from £429) for the Xbox One from 28 February and Titanfall will be included in the package, for a limited time, at no additional charge from 14 March. As of 14:17 UTC buy Microsoft shares at $37.83 As of 14:17 UTC sell Microsoft shares at $37.81 ×Close Oops! You had already voted for this argument. 0Brokers added for comparison: ×CloseComparing brokers Are you sure you want to delete tab? Choose a product Which of the following markets have you traded in? Which of the following instruments have you traded? Your overall ratingBroker rating Writing great reviews helps others discover the providers that are just right for them. Here are a few tips: Be informative and insightful: Be specific and relevant to the provider you’re reviewing, and describe what other users are likely to experience. Keep it real: Be authentic. Review your own experience, and explain why you liked or disliked the provider. Try to be as accurate as possible, and include both the positive and negative aspects of your experience. Be respectful: Not every experience with a particular provider is going to be perfect. Sometimes you’ll want to share negative feedback. Even if you’re frustrated, make sure your criticism is constructive. Business owners often use feedback to improve their offerings. Write with style: People will pay attention when you write thoughtful reviews. Keep them readable and avoid excessive capitalization or punctuation. Use good grammar, check your spelling, and avoid profanity. Choose the right length - a paragraph is great. Be creative and have fun! KPIsCustomize ×Close You probably want to see our latest guides & reports Equities Equities Real Estate 