Source :http://blogs.marketwatch.com/thetell/2014/03/10/stock-market-live-blog-sp-500-retreats-from-record-after-downbeat-china-data/
Content :There’s been more trouble for the aircraft maker’s 787 — news of cracks in the wings of some planes . Dow Jones Market Talk emphasized the domestic decline follows drops in December and January, and these performances are “concerning of course since the US remains far and away MCD’s biggest market.” The Dow fell out of the gate and has basically moved sideways. While the S&P 500 eked out another record close on Friday, Colin Cieszynski doesn’t sound impressed. The senior analyst at CMC Markets apparently would have preferred a finish above 1,880. “SPX500 failed to hold a new high Friday above 1,880 and continues to roll over today. The news “can be seen as a potentially positive indicator for the global economy,” he writes. “Just as more people tend to eat at McDonalds in recessions, the same people may elect to eat at more expensive restaurants when they have more money or feel more secure about the economy,” the analyst says. The bananas industry — that’s the latest sector with M&A news, joining cable, pharma, jewelry. Overall, the merger activity could show the mood in corporate boardrooms is optimistic. Stocks are at fresh session lows, really retreating after last week’s gains. Weaker-than-expected data from China did not help this morning, after the official report showed a surprise drop in exports last month. Ongoing tension between Ukraine and Russia is also weighing on risky assets – as gold and Treasurys are gaining, while oil and equity markets are falling. A bright spot amid general gloom is the stock of Plug Power Inc, up 14% at last check. The ongoing war of words between activist investor Carl Icahn and eBay Inc. got more personal on Monday as both sides wasted little time climbing back into the ring after the weekend, writes MarketWatch’s Rex Crum . As the S&P 500 index notched up another record high last Friday, margin debt levels hit new highs, prompting analysts to warn investors. John De Clue, chief investment officer at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, told MarketWatch that the rise in the S&P 500 over the past few weeks was due to multiple expansion. As wireless operators move further away from contract pricing, research finds their sales are still rising. Serious Monopoly players can be found over at Marvins Gardens.forumotion.com exchanging winning strategies. Luck plays too big a role in Monopoly to risk a comeback.” News that China’s exports fell 18.1% in February, when economists had expected a growth, weighed on resources companies in the S&P 500. The well-known hedge fund manager Seth Klarman warns about bubbles, pointing to Netflix, Tesla, bitcoin and more, writes MarketWatch’s Victor Reklaitis . A sceptic would have to be blind not to see bubbles inflating in junk bond issuance, credit quality, and yields, not to mention the nosebleed stock market valuations of fashionable companies like Netflix and Tesla Motors. Herbalife moved quickly to capitalize on the NYT’s expose, releasing a statement that in essence is an “I told you so.” Ackman’s unprecedented campaign to destroy Herbalife has now been exposed for what it is: a cynical, self-serving attempt to manipulate the market by buying his way into an investigation to cover his own reckless $1 billion dollar bet. From MarketWatch Radio Network : Disappointing economic news from China and worries about Ukraine are weighing on stocks to start the week. But it’s just a pause, according to portfolio manager George Young of the Villere Balanced Fund. Treasury prices swung higher, but traded in an narrow range ahead of debt supply. Oil futures drop more than 1% as downbeat data from China cut into prospects for energy demand. Bloomberg News Mark Karpeles, chief executive of Mt. Gox filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy in the U.S. on Sunday in an attempt to seek relief from pending litigation in the U.S, including the class-action lawsuit. The exchange filed for bankruptcy in Japan on Feb. 28. and disclosed it had lost thousands of bitcoins belonging to customers. Meanwhile, a linguistic analysis requested by Forbes suggested that Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto, who was identified as the creator of bitcoin by Newsweek, is likely not the correct person . The stock has gained nearly 35% since the start of the year and nearly doubled in the past 12 months. The S&P 500 has already cruised past Deutsche Bank’s year-end forecast of 1,850 and may have further to go, writes top strategist David Bianco in a Monday note. In part, that’s because Deutsche Bank is worried by high price-to-earnings ratio, a continuing trend of earnings forecast downgrades and a lack of “higher quality” drivers for earnings per share and the price/equity ratio. Bianco would prefer to see EPS and P/E driven by increased capital expenditure and export growth as opposed to share buybacks. Brad McMillan, chief investment officer at Commonwealth Financial, in a research note, writes that margin debt is in elevated territory and and the conditions may be appropriate for a correction. First, available and cheap financing allows investors to buy more, which, in a virtuous circle, can lead to more demand and higher prices. The other reason margin debt is important is it reflects investors’ attitude toward risk. By taking on more debt, investors are showing they expect stocks to rise and do not believe risks are that high—which lasts until the market turns. Just as with debt, the change in sentiment can drive prices down even faster than they rose. I will write next week about indicators that can actually show when to worry about the market in the short term, but the level of margin debt is not one of them. This year it is supposed to be all about U.S. economic growth, but investors and economists had to adjust their expectations after weak readings from pretty much all government reports in the past few months. The White House’s economic team expects the economy to improve and the main reason behind it is household deleveraging. With about 15 minutes to go before the closing bell, the main indexes are on track for losses of 0.1% to 0.3%. Investors shouldn’t try to time the stock market with moves in and out, but they also shouldn’t hold all equities and ought to be prepared for a big drop at any time, Vanguard Group founder Jack Bogle said in a CNBC interview on Monday afternoon. In case you missed it, a worse-than-expected Chinese exports number got most of the blame Monday when it came to explanations for the selling. MarketWatch’s Sue Chang explains why this news is important with the adjacent chart. MarketWatch’s After Hours column will be out shortly here with details on that retailer’s report and other late action. 