Source :http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2014/03/dual-ing-impressions-discussing-titanfall-on-launch-day-eve/
Content :An online-only shooter like Titanfall is the kind of game you can only fully evaluate on live servers against the full universe of players, so we won’t have a complete review of the game until later this week. We were able to get some quality time with the near-final build of the Xbox One version of the game this weekend, though, playing alongside fellow journalists and developers from EA and Respawn. That time was enough to develop some general impressions of the title beyond our extensive time with the beta . The biggest addition over the beta release is in the campaign mode, which takes nine normal six-on-six multiplayer matches on specific maps and dresses them up with a thin veneer of story. A hardpoint area-capturing match might turn into a battle to secure anti-aircraft guns to protect a planet from an invasion (or to protect the invading force, on the other side). A kill-them-all Attrition battle on a dry desert planet turns into a key battle to secure the only convenient fueling station in that area of space. These scenarios are laid out somewhat elegantly in 15 seconds or so of voice-over just before each battle starts and through a quick spoken recap of the consequences of your victory or defeat during the match’s final moments. They’re also sometimes punctuated by impressive visual compositions during the introduction. One battle begins with a large wave of AI grunts charging in D-Day style, while another starts with the planet’s native, pterodactyl-like creatures swooping down to take out some incidental grunts (too bad they don’t seem to have much effect on the rest of the match). None of this affects the gameplay at all, and it really only provides the barest sense of narrative context for the battles. More than an advancing plot, the story simply hammers home the general impression of a hackneyed, never-ending conflict between an evil space empire and the scrappy militia rebels. That conflict continues on more or less unchanged whether you win or lose, which lowers the narrative stakes quite a bit (to be fair, I was not able to get through all the campaign missions for either side, owing to a lack of opponents during the pre-release weekend). While not objectionable in any way, I feel like most players are going to blaze through both campaigns to unlock the requisite Titan chassis in a couple of hours or so, then promptly forget about it amid hundreds of hours of the standard multiplayer. Outside of the campaign, there are two new multiplayer modes that have been added since the beta. Capture the flag is like every capture the flag mode you’ve ever played in a shooter, except now there are Titans running around. Pilot Hunter mode is more interesting, giving players points only for killing human players and not for AI grunts or Titans. I felt like this blunted the importance of some of the game’s most interesting additions, but it’s a good corrective for players tired of their opponents farming grunts for points in Attrition mode. The full game also opens up a number of weapons and abilities that are unlocked the more you play, in the modern multiplayer tradition. The most interesting I’ve stumbled across so far is the particle wall, a permeable barrier that allows a Titan to shoot out but stops opponents from shooting in. I’ll let Sam talk about the variety of new maps we got to try out this weekend. All in all, my initial feeling is that Titanfall remains a refreshing change of pace for an increasingly tired genre, for all the reasons laid out in our beta impressions . With most first-person shooters these days, I get a “been-there-done-that” feeling after playing for just a couple of hours. Titanfall is the first shooter in a while that feels fresh enough that I want to play a lot more after an entire weekend of bingeing. The first thing you might notice in Titanfall ’s battlegrounds is a mass of dragons flying around. One of the arenas, dubbed Boneyard, is a giant, hilly desert covered with enormous, sun-bleached dinosaur skulls, and its skies are overrun with winged beasts. The monsters only show up in one of the game’s 15 maps at launch, and they serve no gameplay purpose, at least as far as we can tell. You can’t ride them or shoot them down. Nothing remotely similar appears on any other map in the game. The same can be said for pretty much every map that Titanfall ships with, really. The selection doesn’t have much consistency in its aesthetic theme, other than an affinity for vibrant color palettes, robot-friendly expanses of terrain, large draw distances, and unnecessary craziness floating in the sky (more often giant spaceships than dragons). The first two maps revealed during the Titanfall beta set a pretty good archetype for how the rest of the retail game has turned out. Namely, maps have been laid out to guarantee plenty of room for the game’s Titans to run wildly and for the weaker pilots to hide and scurry. For the most part, these elements have been rendered as giant, organic settings; the most striking are probably the water-drenched environs of Smuggler’s Cove and Lagoon, whose various buildings and outposts sit alongside sunset-kissed rivers and lakes. One particularly impressive map, named Relic, sees its two halves divided by a dormant and astonishingly huge aircraft carrier; the design offers just enough openings for Titans to run in and raise pilot-killing terror while still giving pilots a ton of tactical edge. Meanwhile, Corporate is the opposite in terms of “organic” feel; it’s mostly made up of giant, dilapidated offices at an abandoned tech company’s headquarters, but its mix of giant, rounded domes and climbable, broken interiors stands out as something rarely achieved in FPS map design. Sadly, a few of the maps feel more like they could have been rendered in Halo ’s Forge toolset. In particular, Demeter is mostly boxes and right angles, while other maps reduce Titans’ best routes to circuits outside of the maps’ biggest buildings, meaning that your giant mechs wind up chasing each other, round and round, until someone else spawns to create a two-on-one advantage. Maps like this make the game’s lack of level design/customization a little tough to swallow. While the game’s pilots are incredibly mobile, able to double-jump and wall-run, Respawn doesn’t really use these powers to push level design in a vertical direction. Rather, buildings tend to just be spaced out a little further, requiring that you double-jump or wall-run to get to obviously telegraphed points. The speed and jump-crazy mechanics feel great at first, of course, especially in the abandoned-town setting of Colony. Eventually, however, the need to jump all over the place leaves your pilots too exposed, and smarter players will retreat to the more boring, cushy corners of those maps or, worse, to the few high-and-isolated sniping posts that most maps seem to hide. In all, the game has at least six absolutely great maps, which is a more than reasonable ratio considering how FPS games tend to launch. As of press time, though, it seems that Titanfall doesn’t include a private/unranked way of selecting an exact roster of maps: even if you party up, you’ll have to rotate through the good, the fine, and the boring in public matchmaking. Hopefully, that will receive a toggle or fix in the near future. We can't say the same about our hopes for rideable dragons; we'll just have to enjoy those tremendous robots in the meantime. 