Source :http://www.livemint.com/Money/3wB94xRNBhiCci49b8mjGN/Opening-Bell-10-March--Asian-markets-slump.html
Content :Mumbai: US jobs figures cleared some of the clouds over the country’s economic outlook on Friday raising expectations that the Federal Reserve will hold firm in gradually scaling back its support for the recovery, reports Financial Times . 175,000 jobs were added in February up from 129,000 in January and 84,000 in December. The S&P 500 gained 0.1%, Nasdaq Composite declined 0.4% and Dow Jones Industrial was up 0.2%. Asian markets were trading lower on Monday morning following weak data from China and Japan. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.9% after worse-than-expected revision to already weak fourth quarter GDP data. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng declined 1.2% while China’s Shanghai Composite was down 1.6% after a 18% slump in exports in February. Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd shares will be under pressure as it is reeling under a flurry of regulatory rebukes due to manufacturing quality concerns. The drug maker has recalled more than 64,000 bottles of the generic version of a cholesterol-lowering drug—atorvastatin calcium in the US after dosage mix-up was detected. Indian Oil Corp. Ltd shares will be in limelight as it is acquiring a 10% stake in shale gas assets on Canada’s West coast from Malaysia’s Petronas Bhd , which will allow it to source 1.2 million tonnes of LNG (liquefied natural gas) per annum for 20 years, reports Mint . State run banks are finding it difficult to recover their money from defaulting borrowers although mounting bad loans put pressure on their capital base, reports Mint . State-run banks are pushing officials to do door-to-door recovery and are employing call centres for follow-up action. The finance ministry’s nudge to force some top executives at state-run banks to resign recently shows it is running out of patience with the rising tide of bad loans and wants closer scrutiny of officials responsible for it, reports Economic Times . NTPC Ltd shares will see some action as it has challenged the electricity regulator’s order on tariff norms in the Delhi High Court, reports Economic Times . The regulations issued by CERC raised concerns about the company’s earnings and triggered a steep fall in NTPC’s shares, prompting the company to file writ petition. Metal and mining firms will get some relief as the government had decided to give Jindal Steel and Power Ltd and Tata Steel Ltd more time to seek clearances from the environment ministry and furnish proof to the coal ministry by 1 December in relation to the coal mining scam, failing which their mines would be de-allocated. The Reserve Bank of India expects to issue new bank licenses in a few weeks once it has received the approval of the Election Commission, reports Wall Street Journal India . Twenty five Indian companies have applied to the Reserve Bank of India for licenses to carry out banking operations. Lastly, a man-eating tiger that has killed 10 people in northern India is on the loose in the foothills of the Himalayas. Forestry officials have called in experts with centuries of experience tracking big cats, reports Wall Street Journal India . First Published: Mon, Mar 10 2014. 08 15 AM IST 