Source :http://www.product-reviews.net/2014/03/10/titanfall-reviews-bring-positivity-prior-to-upcoming-launch/
Content :in Video Games , Xbox 360 , Xbox One Prior to this week’s upcoming release of Titanfall some early review scores are starting to emerge as respected gaming sites give their impression of this eagerly awaited title. Expected to release on Microsoft Windows, Xbox 360 and the next-gen Xbox One we are intrigued to know what impression this has had on those lucky enough to get an early experience of this. A review by Video Gamer regards this as a very good first instalment, giving us reason to expect more in the future, as they feel a sequel is bound to be on the cards. Classing it as a tremendously enjoyable game and the 6v6 feature has been praised as a smart move. Throughout this review we get the impression this game is still yet to achieve its full potential and after testing this for 9 hours they felt it was worthy of an 8/10. Meanwhile, they say some of the maps do feel too similar to each other, branding the campaign multiplayer as sadly non-dynamic. Eurogamer document their views on Titanfall, but refrain from scoring it at the moment as they have decided to delay their full review until they have had the opportunity to play it extensively. With that in mind, their early preview does not hold back and their extensive account is still worth checking out. They mention how this game gets so much right and game-changing ideas that are easy to adapt to, in fact, so much so that they feel it is easy to get complacent. We also get the impression there is still room for improvement, and while they regard Titanfall as a step up for shooters, it is not a giant leap. When it comes to review scores Polygon’s 9 out of 10 gives us more reason to follow their perspective more avidly. Condensing their in-depth account it seems Polygon are impressed with Titanfall and suggest this title has all the makings of the next big thing. In addition, they reiterate earlier comments about it being a step up, but also remark on this not being a massive leap like that when Modern Warfare started. Overall, some great things have been said about the upcoming title, even though the word potential keeps coming up. In a recent post we discussed the Titanfall Xbox One system that gamers were hoping to get hold of, however, this console is only currently accessible to Respawn Entertainment staff, but we are hoping this will be available to the public in the future. With plenty of build-up surrounding Titanfall it seems this game is living up to its hype, and we cannot wait to get the gamers point of view. Are you expecting Titanfall to be a top selling title? 