Source :http://www.tele-management.ca/2014/03/video-will-chaori-default-spell-reform-for-chinas-debt-markets/
Content :Canada is ranked as the 21 st largest country in the world in terms of internet users. An average Canadian spend about 40+ hours per month online which is highest in the world. The file sharing when it comes to the copyright material is completely illegal as per the Canadian law. The Canadian authorities are working rigorously to make sure that the laws are defined clearly. It is because the fair use policy is clear for every download except music as the idea is very complex. The last mile connectivity is something that the Canadian ISPs have in view before moving forward with the infrastructure build. There are 760 large companies which provide the internet access to the people of Canada. Still, Canada is ranked as a country which does not have reliable internet services as per international standards. The mobile phone companies have also captured the telecom sector of Canada. The CRTC or Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission is the sole authority to regulate wireless networks in Canada. While the rise has been already implemented for new subscribers, existing users will be notified through email before new rates are charged from them. In a statement released by Netflix, the company cited addition of new content and introduction of new features and services as the reasons behind the price rise. It also has a large number of movies sourced exclusively from international film festivals. Few of USA TV shows are also aired by Netflix in Canada like CW’s Riverdale and ABC’s Scandal. The television streaming market is quite competitive in Canada and many leading names are fighting out with each other. Brands like Amazon prime are quite a hit in the country having Canadian airing rights of highly rated shows such as American Gods and Mr. CBS All Access is also set to enter the Canadian market sometime in 2018 with its 9,000 episodes from various shows. The multiple numbers of competitors and the fight to acquire rights for shows has increased the acquisition cost of the content. Though Netflix did not mention it in their statement, still it is a situation faced by all companies in Canadian television industry. Netflix increased their prices last year in May while introducing the feature of streaming in high quality on multiple devices. Users can only stream standard quality videos on a single device at a time. The cost of the standard plan has also gone up by $1 ($10.99 per month) which permits subscribers to access content on two screens. Subscribers of the premium plan now have to shell out a monthly $13.99, which is a $2 increase from the previous price. Users can view high definition 4k videos simultaneously on four screens with this plan. The company changes its prices based on local market conditions in a country. The Australian subscribers had to pay few dollars more after Netflix raised the prices in June countering the increase in local taxes. It is the company’s bid to go international that prompted the move and gave Canada the first opportunity to enjoy its content. The online streaming service in the US has a huge database of content and around 9,000 episodes from its various series. Viewers will also get access to special CBS channels like Showtime without requiring a cable connection. It is free and has a high level of reliability (si vous parlez français, essayez de choisir des jeux sur le site web du guide spécial casino en ligne , qui est fiable et gratuit). CBS corp. has a good chance of creating a considerable grab on the market but it lacks on one ground. The copyrights of many of its shows are already purchased by Canadian broadcasters like Rogers Communications Inc., BCE Inc. and Corus Entertainment Inc. We have to wait and see as CBS predicts they are going to have 4 million subscriptions by the end of this year. It is interesting to note that TV viewership is declining in Canada and online streaming services are giving a tough competition to the traditional form. On the other hand, online streaming services have gained increased number of subscriptions. It can be expected that the market is ripe for online streaming in Canada and other players like Hulu and HBO Go may join the competition in some years. Leslie Moonves, CEO of CBS TV Network said that they were aware of the potential of online streaming judging the success of their competitors. The introduction of the service in Canada gives them the chance to directly reach the viewer on an increased scale which can be expanded globally. CBS All Access had achieved a growing domestic market and now is ready with their premium content to hit the international arena. The idea may sound out of a science fiction movie but the concept has existed for some time. Many companies like Intact Insurance offer a plug in dongles for vehicles which are used to track driver habits. Intact insurance revealed that the dongle program included 350,000 participants from all over the country. Mobile apps have many unique advantages that make them a pragmatic solution for the insurance companies. The app would be using the smart phone of the driver and eliminate any expense on part of the insurance provider. The tool will be used to track aspects of sudden accelerations, hard braking, night driving utilizing the GPS feature of the phones. Intact Insurance applied for permission to launch the program from the N.S Utility and Review Board which was granted on August 4. The initiative will be a way to reward drivers with good habits and give them lower insurance rates for their performance. For the time being, the app or the dongle insurance rates are optional in Canada. With the advance of technology, the companies may increase the cost of the premium and people will opt for the tracking program for affordability. Some also practice bad driving habits like speeding or other dangerous stunts which may impact the insurance rates. 