Source :http://thepeninsulaqatar.com/business/international-business/275450/mt-gox-faced-150-000-attacks-per-second
Content :Read More Qatar QCB, Turkey’s central bank sign currency swap pact The signing ceremony was held yesterday at the Qatar Central Bank headquarters. Read More Qatar Qatar, Republic of Korea review bilateral relations The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs affirmed the close partnership between Qatar and the Republic of Korea, which is considered... Read More Qatar Bayanihan Qatar officially launched Bayanihan Qatar, a federation of 20 Filipino organisations whose members comprise mostly household service workers, construction workers and... Read More Qatar FM meets Ban Ki-moon During the meeting, they discussed means of enhancing partnership and cooperation between the State of Qatar and the Global Green Growth Institute. Read More Qatar Qatar Museums invites internship applications Qatar Museums has announced accepting applications for the Fall 2018 Internships. Read More Qatar Kyrgyzstan FM receives copy of credentials of Qatar’s... The Foreign Minister wished the envoy success in his duties and further development in bilateral relations. Read More India Modi arrives in flood-battered Kerala Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived here last night to see for himself the rain-battered Kerala and also survey the relief and rescue operations. Read More India Vajpayee cremated with full military honours Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, whose appeal transcended party lines and geographical boundaries, was cremated with full military honours... Read More Middle East Israeli troops kill 2 on Gaza border, Jerusalem stabber shot... Israeli troops killed two Palestinians and wounded scores of others taking part in weekly Gaza border protests on Friday, medics said, as Egyptian... Read More Pakistan/Afghanistan Pakistani lawmakers elect Imran Khan as prime minister Cricket star-turned-politician Imran Khan was chosen Friday as Pakistan's next prime minister, elected on a promise to reform a system rife with... Read More Asia Indonesia celebrates 73 years of independence Indonesia celebrated its 73rd Independence Day on Friday. Read More World Business Trump ignites Wall Street debate with his tweet on earnings President Donald Trump brought a long-simmering debate on Wall Street to the surface Friday when he prodded regulators to look into scaling back how... Read More Qatar Business Mideast oil demand outlook remains positive for 2018-19 For 2018, Middle East oil demand is forecast to grow by 0.02 mb/d, while oil demand in 2019 is projected to increase by 0.08 mb/d, according to Opec. Read More World Business Novo buys startup Ziylo in potential $800m deal Novo Nordisk A/S, the world’s biggest maker of diabetes drugs, agreed to buy Ziylo Ltd. to develop new forms of insulin that would respond better to... Read More World Business Inflation unexpectedly hits 3% in test for Bank of Canada Canada’s inflation hit the 3 percent mark for the first time since 2011 in July, an unexpected surge that puts pressure on the Bank of Canada (BoC)... Read More World Business If rupee slump persists, it can hurt India's Modi The rupee's plunge to a record low has worried a wide cross-section of India's society: companies, importers, those going on vacation and students... Read More Qatar Sport Qatar eye impressive medal haul as Asian Games kick off Qatar will bank on athletics, equestrian and shooting to deliver the major share of medals as the 18th Asian Games kick off in Jakarta, Indonesia... Read More Qatar Sport Handball: Qatar beat Iran to top Group B The Al Annabi players led 18-6 at half time. Malaysia crashed out of the Games after losing both of their first round matches. Qatar defeated Malaysia... Read More International Sport Amnesty condemns Indonesia police killings ahead of Asian... Amnesty International says Indonesian police fatally shot dozens of petty criminals in a deliberate campaign of "unnecessary and excessive" force... Read More Qatar Sport Al Tamimi to carry Qatar’s flag n 2012, Al Tamimi became the reigning world No.1 in the World Squash Federation’s junior circuit rankings (Under-19). Read More Qatar Sport QSL: Eto’o loses first match with Qatar SC Former Barcelona player Samuel Eto’o suffered defeat in his first QNB Stars League (QSL) appearance for Qatar Sports Club as The Kings were beaten... Read More Cricket England include Stokes with eye on series win England changed a winning side ahead of the third Test against India at Trent Bridge by recalling Ben Stokes just 72 hours after he was cleared on a... Read More Culture The Rohingya lists: refugees compile their own record of... Mohib Bullah is not your typical human rights investigator. He chews betel and he lives in a rickety hut made of plastic and bamboo. Sometimes, he can... Read More Tech & Science Amazon is planning live TV recorder, challenging TiVo Amazon.com Inc. is developing a new device that records live TV, working around cable providers and encroaching on TiVo Corp.’s market, according to... Read More Culture Despite summer heat, Brussels' flower carpet emblazons city... Belgian flower growers bested the summer's blistering heat to lay out 500,000 blossoms on the central square of Brussels, in this year's edition of... Read More Feature, Movies & Books Karachi's rooftop cattle get a crane lift to the ground Residents of Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, watched as cattle were lowered by crane from the top of a four-storey home ahead of the Muslim festival... Read More Motoring Swiss brothers get ready to refloat the bubble car With its quirky egg shape and minimalist interior, the bubble car was a symbol of cheap and cheerful mobility on European roads in the 1950s and 60s. Read More Community Bangladesh embassy observes National Mourning Day 43rd death anniversary of the Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Read More Campus HBKU student attends summer program at The Hague Academy One such student, Wafa Trad (pictured), Class of 2019, recently embarked on a three-week summer course in ‘Public International Law’ at The Hague... Read More Souq QIB to serve customers during Eid in all mall branches Qatar’s leading Islamic Bank announced that all its mall branches will open their doors starting from the evening of the second day of Eid Al Adha,... Read More Souq Tiffany Blue Box arrives at Qatar Duty Free Complementing the variety of choices offered to travellers shopping at QDF, the new Tiffany & Co. boutique will offer customers glittering diamonds... Read More Campus QA Sidra celebrates first IB diploma results “We are delighted that our very first Qatar Academy Sidra alumni had the opportunity to pursue an IB Diploma,” said Kim Green, Director, QA Sidra.... Read More Music MTV VMAs working to craft tribute for Aretha Franklin The MTV Video Music Awards plans on honoring the legacy of Aretha Franklin - they're just not sure how they will do it. Read More Read More Read More Music 'A rare treasure': outpouring of tributes to Aretha Franklin The death of 76-year-old music icon Aretha Franklin prompted figures across the spectrum, from politics to pop, to pay homage to her tremendous... Read More Hollywood Sean Young under probe for alleged laptop theft Actress Sean Young was under investigation Monday in New York after the alleged theft of two laptops belonging to a production company that fired her... Read More Hollywood Review : 'Christopher Robin': An engaging fantasy drama Designed like an illustrated story book, this fantasy drama opens at a young Christopher Robin's farewell party, deep in the Hundred Acre Woods, the... 