Source :http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20140310-706767.html
Content :March 10, 2014 11:14 a.m. ET Restaurant chain Sbarro LLC filed for bankruptcy protection Monday morning after winning support from its lenders for a debt-equity swap that is intended to speed the company through its second trip in Chapter 11 in less than three years. Sbarro said that lenders holding 98% of the company's debt voted to support the so-called prepackaged plan that calls for lenders to exchange $140 million in debt for control of the reorganized business. Sbarro Chief Executive David Karam said in a statement the deal with lenders is an indication of "the support and confidence they have in the growth strategies" developed by the chain's new management team over the past nine months. Last month, Sbarro said it was closing 155 of the 400 restaurants it owns in North America to cut costs. The lender group is providing Sbarro with a $20 million bankruptcy loan to fund the company's restructuring in Chapter 11. The combination of the store closure strategy and the balance sheet restructuring contemplated by the prepackaged plan will improve the company's profitability and reduce its outstanding debt by more than 80%. Sbarro said it would also test the debt-swap by putting the business up for auction to ensure creditor recoveries are maximized. If no better offers are forthcoming Sbarro said it would seek to promptly confirm the stand-alone reorganization. The privately held Sbarro filed for Chapter 11 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. The Melville, N.Y.-based company used its last stay in bankruptcy to slash 70% of its debt load, leaving the chain with less than $130 million in debt compared with the $400 million that weighed it down upon its filing. Sbarro emerged from its last bankruptcy case in late 2011 following a debt-for-equity swap with lenders. The chain has 800 stores in more than 40 countries. The filing doesn't affect the 600 franchise locations world-wide. The law firm of Kirkland & Ellis is handling the latest Chapter 11 case. Judge Martin Glenn has been assigned the case. The case number is 14-10557. Emily Glazer contributed to this article. Write to Patrick Fitzgerald at patrick.fitzgerald@wsj.com 