Source :http://www.streetinsider.com/Special+Reports/Market+Wrap%3A+Chiquita+Now+Biggest+Banana+Brand%3B+eBay+Rejects+Icahn+Offer%3B+McDonalds+Comps+Fell+in+Feb./9266121.html
Content :March 10, 2014 5:19 PM EDT Tweet Share E-mail Market wrap for March 10thEnd of the Day: S&P 500 down 0.9 to 1,877.17; Dow Jones down 34.0 to 16,418.68; Nasdaq down 1.8 to 4,334.45 * Chiquita Brands International, Inc. (NYSE: CQB ) and Fyffes plc announced that the Boards of Directors of both companies have unanimously approved a definitive agreement under which Chiquita will combine with Fyffes, in a stock-for-stock transaction that is expected to result in Chiquita shareholders owning approximately 50.7% of ChiquitaFyffes, and Fyffes shareholders owning approximately 49.3% of ChiquitaFyffes, on a fully diluted basis. The agreement creates a global banana and other fresh produce company with approximately $4.6 billion in annual revenues. * FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC ) announced plans to separate into two independent public companies, "New FMC," which will be comprised of FMC's Agricultural Solutions and Health and Nutrition segments and "FMC Minerals," which will be comprised of FMC's current Minerals segment. The company expects the separation, which remains subject to final board approval and other customary conditions, will take the form of a tax-free distribution of shares to existing FMC shareholders. FMC Corporation expects to complete the separation in early 2015, and each company is expected to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange. * Minerals Technologies Inc. (NYSE: MTX ) and AMCOL International Corporation (NYSE: ACO ) announced that they have signed a definitive merger agreement under which MTI will acquire AMCOL for $45.75 per share in cash, or a total value of approximately $1.7 billion. The transaction, which has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies, is expected to close in the first half of 2014 and is subject to customary closing conditions. * William Clay Ford who helped steer Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F ) into the modern era as an employee, director and influential member of the Ford family, died Sunday morning at his home from pneumonia. Mr. Ford, 88, served as Director Emeritus, Ford Motor Company and was the last surviving grandchild of the company’s founder, Henry Ford. * McDonald's Corporation (NYSE: MCD ) announced that global comparable sales decreased 0.3% in February. (Estimates called for a 0.1 percent drop.) Performance by segment was as follows: U.S. down 1.4 percent; Europe up 0.6 percent; Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) down 2.6 percent. * eBay, Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY ) Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee rejected both of Carl Icahn's nominees to the Board of Directors. For more color, click here . * Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. released a statement on Herbalife (NYSE: HLF ) and commentary from CFO John DeSinone. For the full statement, click here . * American Airlines (Nasdaq: AAL ) and JetBlue Airways (Nasdaq: JBLU ) plan to terminate their interline traffic agreement and reciprocal frequent flyer program accrual agreement, which includes select routes from Boston Logan International Airport (BOS) and New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK). Beginning today, each airline will no longer accept new interline sales for travel on the other carrier. Effective April 1, customers will no longer earn miles or points when traveling on eligible routes operated by the other airline. All American AAdvantage miles or JetBlue TrueBlue points already accrued through this partnership will be credited to customers' accounts and are not affected. The two airlines are working together to ensure these changes have little impact to customers. * Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. (NASDAQ: GMCR ), today announced it has changed its company name to Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. (Keurig) effective immediately. Shareholders approved the new name at the Company’s annual shareholder meeting held last week. The Company will retain its ticker symbol of “GMCR” on the NASDAQ stock exchange. For more color on the name change, click here . * 3-D printers slipped lower Monday following a negative piece in Barron's release over the weekend. The piece goes on to explain that names like 3D Systems (NYSE: DDD ) and voxeljet (NYSE: VJET ). For more frm the article, click here . * La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company. (NASDAQ: LJPC ) announced positive top-line results from its randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 2 trial of GCS-100 in chronic kidney disease (CKD). The trial met its primary efficacy endpoint of a statistically significant improvement in kidney function. Specifically, a dose of 1.5 mg/m2 led to a statistically significant (p=0.045) increase in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) compared to placebo between baseline and end of treatment. At the 30 mg/m2 dose, there was no statistically significant difference. * According to China's General Administration of Customs, exports fell 18.1 percent in February, more than offsetting a 10.6 percent gain the prior month. Imports rose 10.1 percent for a net trade deficit of $23 billion, from a surplus of $32 billion in January. Market consensus views called for a 6.8 percent gain in Chinese exports, 8 percent gain in imports, and surplus of $14.5 billion for February. 